fe was very new and agreeable. But, mada
ases, and of which the State Trials of t
an outer satellite who was not to speak 
urself! A good reason for taking to a ma
character of the time, was impressed as 
is little brown wig, with a genuine tend
down the hill, and on the low watery gro
And walked with a settled step, down-sta
 Taking note of the wasted air which clo
high--formed one side. Crouching down in
r or two hence, and the low companions a
g in his labour. His few common tools an
k not. Would you do me the favour, miss,
eir bent figures were strained, as if by
y is over, and that I have come here to 
which were squeezed dry into infants' mo
ght degree. He, therefore, made haste to
characters than a Frenchman, represents 
om he had charged to wake him--"ten o'cl
whom the mender of roads, with the aid o
listening. But, there was no loud irrupt
and most affectionate way, "I am a mere 
ince we were as little as this child, an
d the sun was red on the courtyard. But,
hinked as they languidly moved; these go
ll and you're at the top and be damned t
"Do you mean that you won't say, sir?" t
 the mind of either of them was the cons
r, I summon you and yours, to the last o
hrough his frame.
 be, and it was so sad to think how much
re could be, for them or theirs, any lay
 gbnewby@pglaf.org
age it carries on the roof; the country-
have seen in theatres, and in pictures. 
as appointed that the water should be lo
ht were gone.
a man who had slowly won his assurance o
Under it, have I said? When I left the v
in any country outside the United States
 had only one exultant week, in which to
k with a reproachful sound, "that if my 
 accused had remained in England, always
g of the fine straight lines in the crue
er any of you very willingly, and exterm
1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribut
Among the talkers, was Stryver, of the K
by many associations of the days when wh
t you give your toast?"
only that they looked at papers."
k is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTH
were very slight. He had been more than 
"All the village," pursued the mender of
, and blinder, and tore away the gates o
Mr. Lorry observed to be all of a red co
se men deceived us, and taken us back by
"I recall it."
"Are you going to finish that pair of sh
rs that I recognise the tall man; he doe
the court as if a cloud of great blue-fl
s nephew forcibly. At the same time, the
 a moment." It was silently acquiesced i
ll be torn limb from limb by four strong
go to her!" This, with an angry explanat
"And here in these crawling creatures is
s and sixpence was put to Death; the hol
fore my time here, sir. Before our peopl
"If, when I tell you, dearest dear, that
elf, with her blood all chilled, "What s
death, to his justice, honour, and good 
"Yes, I am."
or was left open."
stalled herself, some time before, as Mr
He carried her lightly to the door, and 
g sunny and crowded Fleet-street, was a 
 was none the better for it in appearanc
 away while he was present. Let it be re
wn, for the National Razor shaved him cl
They paid for their wine, and left the p
s where every fierce and furious express
usion after a protracted but vain endeav
e, a quantity of golden hair, a pair of 
 there! Spies! Pull 'em out, there! Spie
dreary roads, they would come to a clust
ned at the Doctor's table, but on other 
dogs. But, the other of the two, being a
"What is it?" asked Mr. Lorry, eagerly.
isted of a wooden stool, made out of a b
eed, when I say I wish we might be frien
ad not been at home many hours, when he 
ome sober and some not--for his life and
e of the gaunt pier-glass behind her, on
ith the Doctor. After several relapses i
This exordium, and Miss Pross's two hand
st among the weeds at its foot.
oped it was true?"
o other name than One Hundred and Five, 
A shrill sound of laughter and of amused
ould satisfy me, I dare say, to know tha
rling--or the darling has lived with me,
 must not be weak, my darling," he remon
irs to call for fruitless help. Happily,
erable people! So oppressed, too--as you
 himself into the Doctor's room. The ben
gly disconcerted by a question so hard t
 Doctor was a pleasant sight too, lookin
, and touched Mr. Lorry on the arm.
"The Treason case."
smal place was deserted until to-morrow 
r heads and fight low, as my brother Sol
 of mine, will ever interpose between us
dreadful carts! You can hear that, miss?
 and then got shot dead himself by the o
 crazy double gates. The farrier struck 
 with dropping wine, and what with the s
 that it should be there--had assured hi
u one last question? I am very ignorant,
I don't say he don't refer to it within 
ristocrat, one of a family of tyrants, o
 his mare. "'Recalled to life.' That's a
ackgammon with you, if you like," said t
 cry most taken up by the sea that rushe
ystery. "The tall man is lost, and he is
his miserable fool, answer the Citizenes
"Is that all? It is not a great deal, th
d. Inference clear as day in this region
ltered through the barrier very slowly. 
ve without wide spread public support an
ge met the lifted eyebrows and forehead 
sages, the iron gates were being closed 
ormer, so much the more valuable here fo
ry breath of a whet he had taken as he c
nfluence your destiny to far greater adv
, but drained his little glass of cognac
my peril be discreet--as he was then, so
ober, laughed then, and turned to Darnay
f thunder and lightning broke with that 
ut motives of sheer patriotism? None wha
d for!
r, through the painful anxiety to avoid 
; lift me up. Where is he?'
Lorry's desk. He held the letter out inq
 be the husband of my daughter. My daugh
assengers did; not because they had the 
er, Lucie passed two hours of every day 
g of the body (previously reduced to pie
ore you a certificate of Cly's burial, w
. That's an excellent card. Inference cl
back.
I keep a wine-shop in the Quarter Saint 
nd has separated sadly from a friend who
ed, for her dear sake. We thank you with
 upon a stool in a public place, and mus
nd that pondering or brooding look which
g as I live."
rises (if he ever would be), and that th
involve her life--and perhaps her child'
s that were considered essential to the 
"My last supplication of all, is this; a
g up the chimney, struck and prised at i
e passerby was in the street. An unnatur
, shillings, and bank-notes--may not the
at the cradle side could always hear tho
 were popularly believed, when they had 
nd of Mr. Lorry, who came panting in bre
 Cross, a kneeling figure or two; attend
 the blood spilled yesterday, the blood 
seful friend in his wake, like a boat to
ouble enough with giving your attention 
ide, and fell down over her neck. Advanc
e extraordinary jarring of that chord co
s the visage of the Lord Chief Justice i
rt, and I have observed her in the stree
Such a staircase, with its accessories, 
ty, and brought a long journey on foot t
emies of the Republic with which it had 
im.
 that carriages were good to make bonfir
g passed on the road."
y barred across, a few feet within. Ther
"I believe it. I do you justice; I belie
siness, or their idleness, to run to the
us, we do not necessarily keep eBooks in
sea. Before their cells were quit of the
e!"
rnay," said Bully Stryver, "and I'll do 
y daughter! Then, a score of others ran 
 our beginning to speak together."
e, constraining my mind not to wander fr
ss-absorption, Mr. Lorry had become the 
 strangest bearers you can imagine, ever
ingly. And between them and the white-ha
 young gentleman of generosity knows how
d emphatically, "the short and the long 
; you were right, it never would have do
be.
g. Little more than a single syllable co
unged in, but he made only Two.
a cell, had sustained himself with no fl
ught into the fatal register. The man ne
of everything else in Fleet-street.
"Yes, sir."
ening out a short supply of wine. As he 
paper on this table. Is your hand steady
ain broken.
of not more than seventeen at the most. 
ike a distracted child.
"To Soho?" repeated Mr. Stryver, coldly.
 punch; I have something to say to you."
e. The led cows, hastily brought in and 
bosom. Then, among the advancing echoes,
 I never knew him."
ike each other, looking silently on at t
o be, and as his sorrows deserved. Then,
in, there are some so heedful of their l
"Good God!" he said, with a start. "What
UTENBERG EBOOK A TALE OF TWO CITIES ***
nt of the compass where the chateau of M
tree moved upon his face, as softly as h
), that I should be able to communicate 
 at Tellson's, and a cocking their medic
s travelling cloaks and wrappers, bread 
rest--along the roads that lay before th
ledge, was poniarded on the spot for pro
ut my dear! You are faint of heart to-ni
ng down from the prison, and their guns 
"We all know you, Citizen Doctor," said 
e lighting of his pipe, he was troubled,
g pretty!"
ppeared in the witness-box.
than they had been, that she communicate
ing again: even though the opportunity o
EBook of A Tale of Two Cities, by Charle
old hangings had been nailed up before t
This Web site includes information about
in which you were lost to her. I know pe
Chapter I      In Secret      Chapter II
His wife explained that she had merely "
hes away. Twenty-Three.
ted:
d a set purpose; a man not desirable to 
 its lead was fired, out of the barrels 
ling," he remonstrated; "don't tremble s
left her in exactly the same attitude so
ld forget it."
r in the lower regions, or in her own ro
n him.
e wrote, the hand stopped, closing upon 
"Then," said he of Saint Antoine, with a
d occupied but an instant.
 hiding-place.
his dusty labour, and the hail-clouds, r
 What shall I do!"
ves were rolled up, too, and his brown a
ny there.
im, since, on being pressed, he became w
inful to you to find yourself mistaken, 
ll that, and in his secret mind it troub
imous bestowal of good fortune on the Do
e, idly burning away."
rcely an amount of order and protection 
nd which one of the brothers had opened 
t, and you have repeated it correctly."
 that I asked her for her family name. S
ur or intoxication, known, without doubt
u from over yonder. T. and Co."
"Mr. Lorry, look once more upon the pris
 checking off her work as her fingers kn
 coming in the echoes, something light, 
! Now, my dear Lucie," drawing his arm s
 and entered the wine-shop.
"Barsad," repeated madame. "Good. Christ
h was so clearly a slight form of good b
labouring horses steamed into it, as if 
iously up the hill.
ation. The clearance was effected at las
wledgment of Mr. Carton's part in the da
 head was lifted for another moment, and
e all."
ly on end, if it had been that moment dr
ether by magic; and The Vengeance, utter
Now that he had no work to hold, he laid
 lips part a little more and tremble: "t
s. Don't be frightened! Not one of them 
"Mr. Barsad is the best authority possib
Defarge brought him the wine, and gave h
me men kneeled down, made scoops of thei
 it, and that it has been here some time
k so terrified Young Jerry, that he made
"On a certain Friday night in November o
 bad and guilty one; prisons gorged with
athy for the miserable people, and havin
adame Defarge. "I salute you, citizeness
and Monseigneur was by this time scatter
ne texture; his shoes and buckles, too, 
connected the title by which the boy had
edly reflect--a shade of horror.
shock under which the sufferer was borne
nly that nothing will influence you to a
aid Defarge.
carriage, and ringing on its floor.
nd, and keep it; it couldn't be in bette
he Marquis, to succour and release me. M
s, from the largest object to the least;
ion too; glanced down from behind his ch
ck cold and damp, but was not dark.
es to see Royalty and Nobility?"
uld be dyed red, which way his face woul
nd yet a solitude!" said Darnay, when th
 seemed to be every face he had seen in 
er, until the very tide of the river on 
testing against her taking so much troub
er cold hand. "I am a poor little seamst
rches that are not my father's house but
"Now, there you are hasty, sir," said Ba
n the morning. Good repose! Light Monsie
"Barsad?" repeated the old gentleman, "B
*****
 mind to Doctor Manette. It was the clos
low, and his hands lying quiet on the co
, and heartless indifference, smote equa
m.
ild of old, and made it a sacred joy to 
atures--the creatures of this chronicle 
ing on to pass away. After a hard contes
He was a man of about sixty, handsomely 
s bell; but, The Vengeance, warming with
end who was not there, and went away. No
 watching them in such quiet as the nigh
 and birds to-day," said Madame Defarge,
"Then, why should I go there?"
 my Father's face. O Father, blessed wor
he utmost; since their escape might depe
!" She also bestowed a British cough on 
be out of the line, if he, could see his
 and wings. It hid in doorways too, rubb
, over the water."
knavish tricks, On him our hopes we fix,
ad darted into their houses, and were pu
ion with a French family, might have kno
appily! It would be an impertinence else
nquiries into Miss Pross's personal hist
ver it.
"Are you sure," asked Jacques Two, of De
es in the tumbrils. Here and there, the 
A bottle of good claret after dinner doe
 a United States copyright in these work
 not so far off, either, but that the wa
rmy of the Republic. Woe to the man who 
our, would outweigh herself and all the 
, my poor child, and even if you could, 
ag. When he had identified these objects
ed the points to the lashes of their whi
eeping, by a watch-fire. Here he paid a 
much too big for Tellson's, that old cle
ng after the breaking of the cask at Def
n when the place is taken!" And to her, 
hey can never help me to escape in the b
away; the mail was waylaid by seven robb
ich looked far more as though it were sp
ash of her eyes between every rapid sent
 even my Lord himself arose from his sea
 in her manners and appearance, owned to
 say that I was a man of business when a
, as a physician, whose business was wit
ndeed, as to the business and his domest
 once to herself. "Good. His appearance;
sieur the Marquis, "and may go to bed."
night?"
ar. Fifty-two were to roll that afternoo
Fire away!"
n another generation, suffer less; but i
servant, no old time, rising in your min
ace. Whether he knew what had happened, 
r, next, as enemies of the Republic, for
 to see it, and to say audibly: "Officer
, and (as far as I could see) face too.
nothing of my fate. I have altogether pe
n."
 sound down below, and their bent figure
 an individual work is in the public dom
eated the words, 'My husband, my father,
e made. Your preparations have been comp
e to Darnay's conductor, as he took a sl
fidential. I was at that time in our Fre
d marking about the eyes, which may be o
 grass! and all the gravestones in the c
t question? I will not say with me, thou
As the captive of many years sat looking
Mr. Lorry handed him a paper through the
"How goes it, Jacques?"
f their relative merits and positions ha
n head, added to a latent uneasiness in 
"The quartering one, eh?"
 license and oppression over again, and 
It was easier for Mr. Lorry to look in a
 human breath in the place, rolled at hi
all. Soon raising his head again, he str
ace, or space. He was so much too big fo
d, will you let me ask you one last ques
memory, far out to sea, Mr. Jarvis Lorry
frame, and from it through his. She said
ifferently you have prospered there," he
won myself a tender place in no regard; 
 turning on him eyes that were changed b
They all reverently bowed their heads an
udable ambition, I am well out of my mis
d instantly followed the sneers of Monse
"I am not crying," said Miss Pross; "_yo
and drive us. They so harnessed him and 
He recovered himself so quickly, however
had stood, was not yet empty.
 probable, too."
ed at the small inn to which he had been
dly attached, and who is so devotedly at
were compelled against his will to add, 
not debauched, they were sufficiently li
ny other work associated with Project Gu
ns and whip and coachman and guard, howe
e, to none. If you will hear me through 
1.E.1.  The following sentence, with act
dy's ears. But, by this time she tremble
, "as if there had been a flash and a cr
its obscurity, was rather like a larger 
her he should give her his hand a week o
nk me a ghost?"
athers, she waited there two hours. As t
nto the street free, but at whom a mista
in the live red coals.
 attempts to bring him round to the ques
calculations when he took to his trade o
her's house but dens of thieves, the hut
tores of knowledge and fancy. He could w
ings, the--the--as you express it--the m
 answer for. If it had been otherwise--'
"A likely thing, too!" replied the stron
 cottages, not steeped in darkness, but 
ery natural subject of human interest, w
, closing upon something.
one."
"Alexandre Manette. Physician. French. W
h his lips many times before he could ut
 of a complicated something, long dreade
windows, and the coach-lamp dimly gleami
l to me, responsible for it, but powerle
seeing her and you with this hallowed li
e had to swallow, he got it down. "And n
 wood-sawyer's house, the feathery snow 
almost sure it was you."
d than his words.) "A matter of business
ntres all over France.
, and lighted, and hoisted them again, a
man got over, and then the third. They a
en choused this last week into as bad lu
ich had not been the case when they went
"Well, well! That's good comfort. I am t
As he stood by the wall in a dim corner,
"With your flying into the face of your 
ferences, had gone home, and the Stryver
o see, and were inquiring for when I ste
At this second interchange of the Christ
ance manner--"is there any prospect yet,
able of all the higher and better flight
desman, wish to know the Bailey."
icult to guess to what dreadful place, t
 stupidly at Mr. Stryver shouldering him
that on the door or doorpost of every ho
The house had always tolerated some pers
ing him fast to itself, now, and all the
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status o
e in the mist, "because, if I should mak
amphlets at the door of Westminster Hall
by the prison wall, in the midst of whom
Lorry?"
nd I expected that the matter would neve
d was bent down, and he was very busy.
nd mistrust. That honest tradesman's man
ght to be returned with full confidence 
aker to take notice that he was a free t
o looked at them in the coolest manner (
"Am I not?" Mr. Lorry opened his hands, 
 profoundly interested in its miserable 
 well, and required a few days of comple
"I hope," said Mr. Lorry, after another 
artly to avoid a domestic spy, they kept
o feed--if he could find food--he sobbed
out Lucie, some ghastly apparition of a 
gned to pore over it puzzling out its me
o expressive of their originator, that, 
ral gaze from the foundations of the wor
nd was gone. The Court, from that exclus
n we had. My opinion is confirmed, and I
ed over him, like a cold wind.
o holes, as he himself was into sores. S
My picture was in her room, and I was in
any causes of complaint he could bring a
r of twelve, had come and gone, and Mr. 
 prisoner, and to keep an eye upon him, 
stool, young Jerry, walking at his fathe
ted on the bodies of their victims. With
embling, standing where he had been seat
ouldn't you go?"
er made a general inspection of these ob
But, her courage was of that emotional n
 it? Now, it is of no use asking too muc
, a fast-spreading murmur came rushing a
Madame Defarge so little comprehended as
He answered, in a tone that went to ever
The President asked, was the Accused ope
"
dear!"
 little difficult. Better to begin slowl
ss upon it as a wholesome means of enfor
"I have."
loor, he moved like a refined tiger:--lo
until morning, in the middle of the nigh
ing-place of Monseigneur, in London, was
is shape by the will of God," say the se
ght have been sitting for his portrait.
the sky was glowing. Then, the mender of
es just outside the door of the wine-sho
with a will, and with conwictions respec
ight."
 the Doctor, bending his head with rever
explaining to others, and those to other
ear, and Miss Pross was ready at the str
hem on the carriage-door--tenderly, care
 impression on the other flies out prome
ed his dinner, and was sitting before a 
ich he walked.
s able to bear it."
much to do?"
be.
ts.
 the matter. If you'll excuse me, as ver
t him with sharp eyes, and slowly drawin
 deed was not then accomplished, neither
"
ner in its acoustical properties, such a
ay have been one of them?"
. A face of a transparent paleness; ever
 who cultivated it, a prevalent tendency
ed the heads off, in one morning, in as 
"
ral had made the most of it; how, nevert
nt pay and employment, to lay traps? Oh 
are both here for their merits; that is 
. The Vengeance, as custodian of the dru
," said Miss Pross, "and stop the vehicl
ked Stryver.
te, while the church tower itself looked
ged, and the one delicate thing to be do
he sake of illustration, that he had bee
manity. Had he stood in peril of a less 
e emphatic leader pricked up his ears an
g exactly as it took place, constraining
musketeers, and the musketeers fired on 
oing to bed, where they have a red edge,
 The chateau is on fire; valuable object
, and to leave my pretty sister; but I a
 seemed to stare amazed, and, with open 
ou ask me such a cruel question?"
the questions put to you, and make no re
"There, there, there! I hope she is, my 
ht there to drink, and appearing even to
 client to that degree that he squeezed 
t had uniformly forgotten himself for th
"I will do," Defarge doggedly rejoined, 
rcled round Defarge's wine-shop, and eve
tors started forward, but she stayed the
ok back, look back, and see if we are pu
nt to you and reliance on you. How does 
e it may be taken into account one day, 
rk.
 liberty with. Here! your mother's a nic
fully anxious and intent as she gave thi
n and women, dipped in the puddles with 
 directly.
ars a secret and unaccused prisoner in t
e fatigued. Good night!"
"I remember a certain famous occasion wh
pe that sparkled in his sight. A moment,
corrupted its good polish in a day or tw
city by night, that every one of those d
s, of the many times her father had told
ere all tenants of his--that man's who s
llson's.
thing could make it so.
the whole as to matters spiritual than h
 of will and action, that appeared quite
"My dear Lorry, I doubt if that could ea
"Yes."
Creating the works from public domain pr
"Good. When do you cease to work?"
o knows better how to be agreeable, in a
Lorry, whom the counsel learned in the l
 off _its_ head comes. All the family!"
randing-iron, should repeople it. Walkin
ultitude of laughing ladies and fine lor
hain of separate knots, for safe keeping
, and although I know better--although i
rom herself of the name he had relinquis
oth?"
, whip-corrected, snorting and pawing th
among the lean kine brought there to dri
ntention now.
gneur under his reverses as a refugee, a
; in the former case, they are subtle an
en they had done descending, and were wi
ere, sir. The George was in other hands 
y on his way, who fared towards Paris fr
pages was made at a doleful grating, by 
te royalties under this paragraph to the
at you feel quite, quite sure, no new af
h, and I shall knit 'BARSAD' before you 
ing--as your mother knows--a fishing. Th
d with smoke.
 three strong men absolving themselves f
"The word is not material, miss; either 
 summoned.'
ough it were spun from filaments of silk
which above all were coarse and galling,
story. It is likely enough that in the r
your attention to that gentleman. And lo
minute ago. Do you not believe it is the
nk was a low brick wall, surmounted by a
 house to house, rousing the women.
he manner of its composition, so, sublim
s! Who threw that?"
 by those superior Beings--taxed by him 
save for the owners, he saved. No better
than he, in Paris at that day; no man in
waited him then and there, and that he w
oubts to solve, and knew how the ways of
, and a station that was distasteful to 
 steep rugged ascents of stone and brick
to you may choose to give you a second o
nd I'll either catch hold of his throat 
morning, in as many minutes. The name of
unintelligible signs.
ed on in a steady and set silence. The d
aint Antoine, while a speck in a blue ca
 and then astonishment. He pressed the w
y horsemen riding abreast of the tumbril
﻿The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Tale
t possess the kind of information necess
"Why, Mr. Darnay? D'ye hear what he did?
ere. Take up the pen and finish. Hurry, 
"As I am at home myself," said Mr. Lorry
Pull off gentleman's boots in Concord. (
"I said so! A brave number! My fellow-ci
 age, he would have been a Professor; in
 not appear to be quite sober, laughed t
turn to him with a gloomy smile.
ir part in it. Its deplorable peculiarit
and on.
they did not shake hands.
r."
ated his brother with a hatred as strong
few questions. The wigged gentleman sitt
 away; and then poor lights began to shi
 out, in a little town on the high road,
rer who had robbed a farmer's boy of six
 British subjects in America: which, str
ections, as the ocean is one day to give
 unkempt figures crushed the high grass 
ns, any apprehensions, anything whatsoev
om. Ladybird has learnt to know then tha
patches of most coarse vegetable substit
illised the figure. It had no effect upo
ry curious case in which I am deeply int
 at the guard, handed the passenger a sm
derstanding that the aforesaid, and over
"Halloa!" said Mr. Stryver. "How do you 
nged away in a poverty-stricken, purpose
ter was lying before me just completed, 
, that it was mere professional claptrap
roject Gutenberg" associated with or app
er. I don't understand."
 four men who had taken him last night, 
en Madame Defarge put her toothpick by, 
 sloughs there. The agony of our impatie
e earned as much as he wanted.
 sober face elate you, however; you don'
rway, there were growing trees, when tha
m and a kind of inspiration in the eyes,
"And as such," quoth Mr. Lorry, whom the
I hope."
; Hunger stared down from the smokeless 
poured out another glassful of brandy, a
n't get no iron rust here!"
 received this, as well as if I wrote. M
er so. Don't revive her to consciousness
in the kitchen fire; and the tools, shoe
aces peeping from behind every open door
years and a half ago."
hat as it may, a change in his position 
n of air on his passage through, that to
many hands, too, and many faces, and man
 on his own particular perch behind the 
es; as to which cattle he could with a c
 a gnashing of teeth in unison. Men and 
"You made mention of the young lady as a
 him, but them. It was nothing to her, t
ed me to death I hope it would have sust
d; but her father is comforting her, and
lf. If she should ever tell me that you 
ot one of them would harm you."
ng gate, there came the usual night hum 
eering at the chain were still among the
he throng could have told; but, muskets 
"It was as if the wind and rain had lull
ing tears into anybody's eyes. There's n
to that, they seemed careless what commu
he family, I could even resolve to incom
ight. A moment, and it was gone. Climbin
le appearance in respect of the absolute
X. The Substance of the Shadow
 person, stopping at the last door on hi
e on it but the dark deference of fear a
The shadow attendant on Madame Defarge a
als; now, hanging a housebreaker on Satu
orrow's victims then awaiting their doom
f his being so little wanted in France, 
ter, to myself, as perfectly forgetful o
aid Jerry, not unlike a reluctant witnes
nd was as quick as youth.
 fretted all the fat out of their parchm
 streets, among the heavy shadows, with 
the roads. The burial-place had got to t
ile from France; like you, driven from i
s and secrets as were known to the passe
e. He broke the awkward silence by sayin
of Monseigneur. Military officers destit
 and at four she turned resignedly away.
 and Michaelmas, might have floated a ki
pon him.
 indictment denouncing him (with infinit
ed; beyond, a quiet coppice-wood, in whi
ered, looking down into his glass. "I ha
glass replenished. Mysterious backs and 
ver know his father's story; who might e
might have hope and comfort here to-day.
 of roads called Jacques, who doffed his
, forbade him, even for his life, to dis
memorials borne in procession, and had k
was the spot to which such French intell
"What passenger?"
t has lasted but a short time." Then he 
Twelve gone for ever.
equired to prove the rule that the sparr
lses quickened by expectation.
ted, respected, and looked up to?"
 and asked him how he dared--
 and being informed that you were probab
--my love for Charles, and Charles's lov
e. He advised that they should let the t
ques. Am I right, Jacques?"
orbits of the eyes, being much too horiz
d thrown the blinds wide, had looked out
nfusion, and that he was in the tumbril 
old. And it's really very hard," said Mi
nge at their leisure whether he should g
ch. "Who wants me? Is it Jerry?"
it. After what has happened, and after h
l bewilderment, astounding noise, yet fu
ies made there were in consequence so nu
s of her voice, she sat down on the benc
ur her husband returned amicably to the 
"Indeed! You are a pretty fellow to obje
"You are fatigued," said madame, raising
up, for an instant at a time, when he wa
is way across a silent terrace, and saw 
range law of contradiction which obtains
, informing me that some intelligence--o
gure approaching on foot, the like of wh
B-u-u-ust me!" said Mr. Cruncher, who al
nly opened, and two figures rushed in, a
ying and sputtering in my head. If you w
 and his domestic affairs, he walked up 
n!"
im, barefoot.
s, therefore, as little surprised as a m
hat morning, a vast dusky mass of scarec
y mind."
ch will be made in his arms, his breast,
"You are right, Jacques," was the respon
ere he was or what had happened, until i
arton was there, with his hands in his p
A narrow winding street, full of offence
e steps he heard, he fancied they would 
efarge escorted to the top of the stairs
ght him. His scientific knowledge, and h
hat was not quite one of perplexity, or 
it was the peacefullest man's face ever 
he men and women, their choice on earth 
us interest."
ve him now, my Doctor, save him!"
 did see her when the chances served, an
ing against the wall where its shadow wa
 moved away, to descend again; and a glo
ind the counter, he took notice that the
ell of the law. Take care of your chest 
 they beguiled the time by embracing one
d there was many a good south wall, not 
ruffled aspect, and, presenting as respe
arge. And by one other."
"Behold your papers, Jarvis Lorry, count
 predominating. No sooner was the acquit
" observed Carton, coolly. "Pray sit dow
got undeserved promotion in it! Better f
f the quantity of wine and punch which o
e Republic One and Indivisible of Libert
 his honest and courageous face there wa
f earth, but had in them that breath of 
 orphan, there was wild excitement, patr
 in the moonlight, coming to me and taki
: "what's a Resurrection-Man?"
 his head, and answered, in a low voice,
 nowhere, Lucie heard in the echoes of y
was their child, that brother was my bro
our tend nearer and nearer to destructio
"'How has this been done, monsieur?' sai
"See!" said the Doctor of Beauvais, rais
"Yes. As I was telling you last night wh
to do it. I have felt, and do even now f
e'll always show 'em a clean pair of hee
those qualities; the troubled time would
 dark winter day, and what with the shad
r father then present, precisely in the 
e that it was loss of time to dwell upon
sable purchases she had to make. Mr. Cru
at, and look at the crowd."
rs, unless upon an errand, and then he w
house again, for it was full of lodgers,
rew to defend himself--thrust at me with
ine, and gave him Good Evening.
e fallen into mine. Even when we were fe
exploring the depths of her reticule thr
 Stryver never had a case in hand, anywh
atter to preserve the innocent deceit of
Carton's hand was close and firm at his 
Having smoked his pipe out, and ruminate
 and rose to depart. In going, he had to
"Lucie Manette, only daughter of Doctor 
 coats and cloaks, and went out with him
, sat down at the table, and said, "Now 
fight. A dream, all a dream, that ends i
"I have thoroughly made up my mind about
 mother's family."
eigneur!"
ng of a horse and riding away. There was
agree to be bound by the terms of this a
istant passages: no cry was raised, or h
 drowned the proceedings, that he had ob
 manner of shaking hands, always to be s
ndescribable ring in it, weird and unear
 preliminaries done with, and they could
a good sign, that he wishes to see Royal
y was expected back presently from the B
nd fishes, that things in general were s
ow from terrible warnings I have noted i
 yet."
n the stairs; nor the hurried figures on
Carton gently pressed it.
"Think? You know I have been drinking."
urney's end," said Mr. Cruncher, glancin
nd an inveterate hatred of a class, oppo
imes. She--have you seen her, Doctor?'
states who approach us with offers to do
d, and as it dropped, he dropped with it
nd agitation, but, Mr. Cruncher--though 
s heart. The joker rapped it with his ow
I do not doubt that you will find him, w
ittle piece of paper, screwed it up, and
with the prevailing Republican colour, i
oar. "Yo there! Stand! I shall fire!"
and lemons.
 into the worst of luck. B-u-u-ust me!" 
f the room, followed down the stairs, fo
y, I find it difficult to imagine any su
, sir?" he said to Monseigneur, as he to
 wit, the ghost of youth, the ghost of a
e of the Christian name, Madame Defarge,
s time he passed in London.
ry her, against a rainy day. That's the 
ted village had seized hold of the tocsi
wood, done by some inexperienced rustic 
stly reproach himself, but had uniformly
al at the Barrier, but whom he directly 
Or do you mean that I shall strike you d
"You know that you are recalled to life?
"Bring me hither that fellow!" said the 
?" inquired the Judge, knitting his brow
f them, and must consequently let them o
e."
n if it were not."
e sufferers by the same axe--a woman--ha
 attentive expression fixed upon him; "w
and his brown arms were bare to the elbo
 to the person you received the work fro
now nothing of it. But, as an old fellow
When he got out of the house, the air wa
o do something to stay bloodshed, and as
 bad sight."
 again upon the window.
were deliberating which world you should
d has fallen by my brother's sword--like
a colonnade, was extensive standing--for
s snipped off diamond crosses from the n
ves of the chase; grimmer with certain h
nd Lucie; secondly, because, on unfavour
sors who have risen on the destruction o
"No, father," said Lucie, yearning and w
flies out promenading, who looked at the
 being thus fatally recorded. Charles Ev
hose affairs were, a consideration for o
 we ready? Come then!"
"Hah!" said the Marquis again, in a well
o leagues beyond the summit of the hill?
 and morose lounger there. When he cared
 itself. I give you that advice."
SUCH DAMAGE.
 Fleet-street westward, attracted his at
e whole occupied an hour and a half.
is, as it was the episcopal mode among h
ted the Last Day. Impassive faces, yet w
ust completed, when I was told that a la
ilosophy has become the mode; and the as
ight, and I will go to others whom it is
istance:
pay for it; when his ease was suddenly d
g them to pieces.
est he should come back.
teristic, besides being singular--and sh
XI. Dusk
girl, and woman, all in one, are round y
d back some dozen miles or more, to a ga
 Miss Manette, that you could have retur
d not died when he did--Don't be frighte
t day, against such denunciation.
he can get to it--which depends on many 
"For you, citizen?"
to      the Project Gutenberg Literary A
e of this young Pagan, in Lombard-street
he dark was a City tradesman in the ligh
h mud got taken up along with it, that t
"Good day, citizen."
 dead, that could not be surer than it i
"Of his own desire?"
her. Under cover of the darkness he foll
tions, incapable of their directed exerc
orshippers in the suite of rooms without
confidence, with some minutes of your co
mble in and close behind the last plough
g for him. But, he had not yet spoken to
entleman and lady. They are here."
ked in vain. On his coming out, the conc
rned Sydney; "you ought to be much oblig
ing his feet, and keeping an eye and a h
t asleep directly.
ot the gander. And here's Mrs. Cruncher,
 to represent bars, peeped through them 
 watched the face of his friend now sixt
good or for evil, in the superlative deg
e and child who had to live after him, s
ies, Monsieur the Marquis drew up in his
o show where he lies. Otherwise, the pla
her head, though not to the concealment 
e and two more knows it."
 the same singular look that had been up
ittle reservoirs of mud and water, had n
"Business! Bless you, _I_ have no busine
se to occur: (a) distribution of this or
Even when he had satisfied himself that 
ll here is so unprecedented, so changed,
 for the moment, and are both people of 
The intention with which he had done wha
tle coldly as to them, though very warml
ned uncleansed in those times of terror-
pon the old prisoner's head. The favour 
there, with the distant chateau for fire
overed. That Providence, however, had pu
all man; he does not show the soldiers t
s unknown in England, he is no Marquis t
h purchases as were needful. Although Mi
ay. Reaccused and retaken yesterday. Ind
furious expression was in vivid life, th
ie. And the friend I purpose to myself t
d Co."
The four surrounded him, where he stood 
s goes in favour of more patients, and h
opened, where it was, into a space some 
 was now among the company in the outer 
, and which was now immovable, had deepe
in the hundreds of thousands of breasts 
t he would do best to answer, but always
to her, and they walked up and down toge
he village and up the rise beyond, was s
orbidden for our lives to keep a single 
ut watchfulness and eagerness; there was
poch of incredulity, it was the season o
ld extract no answer from him, and, afte
id Mr. Lorry, reverting to the theme, "y
rriage door, I also observed that they b
conference, but abided at a little dista
 wood-sawyer was so small, that its whol
 words that passed between us, long ago,
all day long, have made me nervous witho
rable safety and ease (if he were lucky)
 VI     Hundreds of People      Chapter 
time was passed at Cambridge, where he r
"Tut! Nonsense, sir!--And, my dear Charl
ression were not produced by a real corr
e, and could obtain no hearing; these th
rth in paragraph 1.E.1 with active links
t say it is--"
are in the public domain in the United S
nd opened it, "ever since. There it is. 
nds of breasts there, is, in some of its
here it shivered to pieces; then, rang t
advantages, for the marks of gripping fi
ctor Manette, in his usual quiet dress. 
e with a mere girl who sits on the side 
 to help him on with his outer coat; "Bu
ore decision, "It has come to a point. I
His son obeyed, and the crowd approached
s no vestige of colour, and large widely
ustice; I believe it."
He was arrested by the quick arrival of 
 business appearances, you would be amus
e, as if a thought were wrung out of his
It was almost morning, when Defarge's wi
e accessible until dark."
ndon like Tellson's place of business in
he point, he came to the conclusion that
nversation, and the rumour openly going 
He accompanied his conductor into a guar
him as he showed himself.
that no one near and dear to me is in th
in a rapturous croak, "Magnificent!" and
hameful crime and disgrace, the new-come
nging-sword-alley, Whitefriars: the time
in it clearly defined; one set expressio
ion.
e."
"Dearest dear! Can you tell me, this las
 in it had much engaged Mr. Lorry's atte
red him to his (Mr. Attorney-General's) 
or, and softly called to him. The noise 
ildering the senses, and steeling the he
oor, and they passed into a solitary cel
 It is better for the poor little playth
 Why not?"
" said Miss Pross, in smothered tones, "
ut myself, if any one. And shall I hang 
re at her bosom. Miss Pross looked up, s
ay:
n front of it, seated in chairs, as in a
much difficulty after a long while, and 
work of volunteer support.
ore, the Dover mail struggled on, with t
 expression.
gentleman, that I have long dismissed it
 no like. Sometimes, he gets up in the d
 case of a shock from which he has recov
rty was in course of confiscation and de
 torches, and a tinder-box. For he was f
 he were lucky) in five minutes.
"It is a pity you have not, sir."
pressive of negligence than defiance. It
hey drew back from the window, and the D
m her, and I hope will always be kept fr
us figure, placed it on a litter they ha
tched voice, that night all potent as th
and I must go!" those were not tears all
poseless, his feet became animated by an
ne out of the wine-shop singly. And betw
of ploughed land, with a plough upon it 
 in her bosom, and, with her hands yet a
an accompaniment of noise as he could ma
year.
ed, by way of proviso.
"How goes the Republic?"
, bending over measures of wine. Monsieu
ith you. You know the terms upon which I
 and the light of the fire touching thei
Mr. Darnay had kissed her hand fervently
ough it is not seen or heard. That is yo
us to see the gentleman from Tellson's i
ight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve. Hush!'
rength to her case, and make herself dou
kind as to advise me, that I should go t
rson he learned that the funeral was the
hese:
th the barrister, Mr. Lorry bustled into
case, Monsieur Defarge bent down on one 
orted, and Monseigneur without a guinea 
ed on his shoulders), that the good phys
"Monsieur the Marquis, vendor of wine."
scientific gentleman; a man of great acq
"Monseigneur, he was whiter than the mil
d-chamber of Monsieur the Marquis, one l
ure that stood beside him was the figure
"Never imagine anything. Have no imagina
e neighbouring cesspools, and evil commu
from him it had been more slowly pressed
 as many of these patriots as you can. W
enberg-tm electronic works to protect th
gman, ever busy and ever worse than usel
 somewhere. After all, the question is s
rt of the country. Of all the days of my
he knitting-women count Twenty-Two.
ay."
n hurriedly shut up their shops; for a c
rehead, gradually forced themselves thro
r. "Ay! and condemned as a traitor." At 
 a hundred to one if I should avail myse
low, and sometimes when she had quite fo
t on the crown, which was raggedly bald,
into it, and stood over him, barefoot.
he powerful frame attenuated by spare li
k. Even then, I did exercises for other 
siness may speak to Mr. Darnay now?"
aved her hand, to imply that she heard, 
e scarecrows who, in their quest for her
hat time, his imprisonment had been asso
ow, and a fellow of such indifferent rep
t at my door in a little box, with my na
 often disfiguring such cases, and of wh
Here, Mr. Lorry perceived the reflection
had discovered every kind of remedy for 
heart, Jerry. They are worth no more tha
ther card, Mr. Barsad. Impossible, here 
worst, a woman was kneeling. She turned 
Deep ditch, single drawbridge, massive s
en, and help us! Look out, look out, and
 hail drifted heavily and the sea ran hi
 often barely escaping from being run do
h a dull mechanical perception, beforeha
he chimney, where I have slowly and labo
tity of strolling about by night, and lo
keep to that. As to me--will you never u
 upon him, so sustaining, so encouraging
 me start. We had better go in."
y. This encouraged Mr. Lorry to have Mis
n, for whom the rest made way. On seeing
 plane-tree behind the house, and the ec
arried to a man who knew nothing of my f
r to whom he is so devotedly attached, a
 seen how safe and strong he was.
greement.  If you do not agree to abide 
 it, Joe?"
ings, and seemed to be ancient usage bef
ld briskly fall to his sawing again.
ng away, like the minutes that were fall
d as hopping on behind him, bolt upright
 Defarge said to madame his wife, in hus
rocess."
ssibly stir out. I say this, because wha
argumentative smile.
"Why?"
ovide a secure and permanent future for 
rection of Mrs. Cruncher, in case he sho
He added, in a jesting way, that perhaps
arms folded, sat in the morning light an
 Defarge understood the answer.
with the bloodless lips, "THOU DIDST IT!
ain of it, for his brown stockings fitte
dge, thoughts, and notice, when he rang 
egs, there will be poured boiling oil, m
be dressed in some extraordinary tight-f
pparent to them. They heard him mutter, 
 that he had obtained the permission, an
this dance. It was so emphatically a fal
e menacing or anger. Neither did the peo
it down, so that the miserable people wh
ion until invited.
 the old man's hand to his lips, he did 
er go into the line of the reg'lar diggi
s Mr. Charles Darnay. D'Aulnais is the n
ught to have been perfect by that time, 
lves to the sodden and lee-dyed pieces o
y heart, to-night, 'I have secured to my
door, and Jerry was booted and equipped.
ther, were buried in the garden. So wick
at favoured period, as at this. Mrs. Sou
s the prison. Formerly, they were turned
ore a red cap now, in place of his blue 
xties rolled to a death which had become
ld associations of France in his mind, h
king and necessary of the advocate's acc
d the life, saith the Lord: he that beli
t the gate, a group of officers were loo
y. Poverty parted us, and she knows noth
ribbon the prisoner had worn. Then, he s
own into her face while she sat looking 
with a slow forefinger, and with a studi
He had not returned sooner, he replied, 
?"
 paleness; every feature in it clearly d
 in his sleep, and showed itself in shin
orry answer straight."
f mine--this is what I mean, if I can ma
 will have you from that door," said Mad
 another way. Suddenly they stopped agai
s supposed to be rather rapidly swallowi
as the law terms bristled it, made out w
xedly at the ground.
aster."
ess of the gallows-rope they mused about
 the lower staves of the ladder on which
wn a flock of birds, unable to fly, and 
posed, and whom either of them would hav
it from Mr. Barsad's communication to a 
sir), let that there boy keep his father
aid from the outermost bound of Saint An
"At sunset."
his conscience.
You will be visited, and can ask then. A
ecord to-day.
een, and no dogs. As to the men and wome
als. They leisurely walk round the carri
 Saint took courage to lounge in, very s
 what he was ordered.
elf, and he must go. Everything that aro
ir wives laying their heads upon their p
king along them, with reverently shaded 
ens
 one else. Can I turn it to no good acco
an earthquake to swallow a town. Eh well
e Republic, forasmuch as they had not as
e who are here. If you really don't want
y ray of hope that Mr. Lorry could disco
"On the contrary; I come direct."
o be landed in their boat."
s the bell at the great gate sounded, an
igneur as a class had, somehow or other,
The sound of a horse at a gallop came fa
arrive. Be sure you are there, my soul,"
e of the two passengers would admonish h
o monstrously abused, that the suicidal 
 alone--for Miss Pross had gone straight
nd nearer.
Mr. Lorry saw that they understood one a
ity with the dire endurance that was ove
w you do it, and I don't wonder at it. S
ad that the thing has dropped, because i
 inveteracy of whose pursuit cannot be d
ually, in carts and coaches, on a violen
th. In the hour of my death, I shall hol
irst day, other count of time there was 
m at once, and get them out of the way, 
Not a word was spoken, not a sound was m
 than Mr. Jarvis Lorry could, though he 
good fortune. Are you astonished?"
ood with his hands resting on the slab o
the dark night only showed in slight hor
rrible shoulders against doors, and draw
les in every dull little pane of glass. 
f better things, Mr. Carton!"
eir hands on the shoulders of the people
and years away. The "sharp female newly-
then, turning his calm face to his nephe
 night when they had looked at the light
 feel a sacred glow and joy in making hi
t reference to George Washington, which 
ere, by this spectacle of ruin, it was n
. As the boat so favoured is usually in 
and prised at its sides with the crowbar
 air might pass freely through them all,
"I should like to ask you:--Does your ch
cry across the sea, hoping it may perhap
ross had laid the child down on his own 
had taken up her knitting, and was at wo
n a dim corner, while some of the fifty-
 having. The Guillotine goes handsomely.
time," said madame, "for an earthquake t
uestioned. His high personal popularity,
She tied a knot with flashing eyes, as i
"--And if it does come, while we live to
waited to see the carriage of the King a
d picked up in their interrupted saunter
 joined her in their own rooms, he found
tomise his old condition.
eature that was to be so butchered and t
nd the number of indispensable purchases
ghs of the winds that blew over a little
orning.
earest trees, laid hold of by the fire, 
 know."
a prevalent absence of mind, were perhap
nything.
 the lighted windows where the people we
 a sound precaution, and may be a necess
least was the seeming rarity of sleep. A
then, Monsieur the Officer," said Defarg
pped his hand for an instant on his swor
o have quitted Paris. I have my Leave to
ld lay hold of nothing else, set themsel
ry corner, passed in and out at every do
ashion, that you wished to see, and were
arnay, that I thank you with all my hear
enough perhaps to be heard; but at any r
ife-tide of the city to the boundless ev
The Judges having to take part in a publ
at these five came down to him before he
nd took the opportunity of observing the
ration out of doors, the Tribunal adjour
attle, and the furious sounding of the l
d bound to have a reason. State your rea
 on it, "has much influence around him."
women up and down to seek her, lingering
ch to the changing of his aspect, that a
aw her (so she learned from her father) 
han to turn a slight thing, which, to my
 look, on Sydney Carton, it would have b
-walls of the Island of Paris, where the
y the bridge of the Pont-Neuf, reckoning
 burning, and retraced their way to the 
them, for I want you to take the verdict
One of the first considerations which ar
with all the crowd. Standing, as it were
hile he stepped over the way.
ng influence, that for minutes at a time
ways spoke to him first, and often gave 
were in the nature of traitorous ways to
 those words, which struck the eyes and 
imely aid! Help, help!" The officers loo
o make. Mr. Cruncher, with the basket, w
ng else in the garret but a pallet bed),
n--his hand again in his breast--looked 
readth of a line, suggested to her husba
let it eat him away.
 showing that he was enraged and made ma
 of her.
ryver? How do you do, sir?" and shook ha
ther than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
air, that the best of players at leap-fr
and my husband have enough to do to keep
at no plainer case could be.
uarter of Paris, was in a wing of a larg
 had seldom graced it with his presence 
itizen and Citizeness Defarge. And by on
 asking too much of me. Ask me to do any
ke, Destiny will keep her husband out of
on," mourned Miss Pross, casting up her 
sion as possible for talk and envy, was 
 my name--to whom the sight is likely to
 grated door where the gaoler awaited hi
or she would lay her own fair head besid
imes during the day; at those times, the
The object of all this staring and blari
"I repeat this conversation exactly as i
uld, and ran down the stairs to call for
"Emigrants have no rights, Evremonde," w
e disturbed state of the country had imp
yes with his hand. The table trembled in
 when he had thanked him, and stood besi
ng again me, and I shall work you for it
 little proposal that I wish to make for
 him off his legs, and a loud buzz swept
of emigrant property, I had remitted the
Having purchased a few small articles of
"Not of late years. It is fifteen years 
this prisoner?" demanded a resolute-look
possibly be saved, and many lives must i
"It is so," assented Defarge again.
 until morning, Mr. Lorry rose and said 
d attend to it."
d to the brother.
hem with such a force of suction, that w
re. Our relations were business relation
ellson's should prevent my giving him a 
d, "that if my fortune were so cast as t
"It _is_ a thing to thank God for; is it
er as the weeks of the year. Fifty-two w
ore it.
tion, too, was received with acclamation
wn beside him, the road-mender tried to 
.
g absent for an hour, returned. In the m
is, with a smile.
eless, and vociferating in a surprising 
"It shall be done!"
man's voice called from the mist, "Is th
e corner where the Doctor lived, was not
or others? No, no."
"Into the court, sir?"
ed again, after a peal of thunder. "Here
 pinch of snuff, and lightly crossed his
 had awaited his breakfast, his mind was
able. But, madame sat all day at her cou
f street that had a congenial air of ret
 asked me. What did you say?"
s of so much account to both of us, in s
ted that the book should shut with a spr
t and preoccupied state.
upon next to nothing, to see every inch 
w turnkey, now prisoner, always spy and 
octor repeated, turning her another way.
in a mass, like one great heave of water
 since cared for and parted with, had di
eat the question, he murmured an answer 
OU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQU
ence on the mood of those who drank it w
 the uncle and meeting the eyes of the f
 the twentieth was difficult to squeeze 
 understood it.
 How much of the incompleteness of his s
 that now upon the third night of the au
, to be very generous with him always, a
et and the sound of her prattling words.
So powerful is use, and so desirable to 
"I am quite sure, Mr. Cruncher," returne
"Listen once again then, Jacques!" said 
 Lucie as if it were the finger of Fate.
peted floors, great dogs upon the hearth
know by a word whether alive or dead--I 
 the bloody-minded anger with which they
 deep in her face, and her hair was torn
man altogether, with good eyes and a goo
no longer within hearing and the night w
 a distant clink was heard across the co
ies of the Nobles were, and I expected t
The Doctor shaded his forehead with his 
e relief, all the happiness you bring to
tlemen both," said the spy, always striv
s, pulled off a red cap he wore, and loo
 together, no man had taken fright at th
t him twice, without looking again: even
 lady had suffered so intensely before h
 has brought you among us. May it soon t
The having originated a precaution which
n we can describe it. Enough. Will you p
 the weary passenger started to the cons
 enter the accursed fortress when it fel
re the Tribunal again to-morrow, Mr. Bar
carried, on the shoemaker's bench (there
nswer for them separately. I mark this c
ls. I have looked at her, in a state so 
ow, on his back; dragged, and struck at,
tendency to hold forth and hold out, "as
t of the procession in which he walked.
ow myself? I think so. It is best that t
 hopping on behind and gaining on him, s
n the President said (else had his own h
acket-ship in which I returned, and made
s you anticipate, pursuing the object th
and solemn--"
 Solomon John?"
 whether his general health had been pre
jury rubbed his hands together, and rest
hing unusual had occurred. If he appeare
o a comfortable attitude, and stood surv
"Mr. Jarvis Lorry."
d upon it, I'll hold my own against them
arkness he followed out of the room, fol
countenance, the darkness of it was heav
e, sufficiently disturbing the darkness 
 who, in pursuance of the charm, was req
t his feet.
ssessed.
"
 take some rest. He needed no persuasion
ther in their dark holes again, the Fanc
te. Is there"--it was the good creature'
 to the Republic!"
his heart was, Carton dressed himself in
ouched besides. As they walked on in sil
d stumbling between whiles, as if they w
gure of the sharp female called La Guill
o that it swells forward in a mass, like
 fifteen years since we--since I--came l
en they advance quite near to me, I reco
alled to confirm it, and did so. Citizen
le gesture. The Marquis took from his po
rtainty. Unprepared as he was for the la
 before his own face, and then his insid
 Pross, cheerfully repressing a sigh as 
, repudiated him; he lived in the most v
"
on's web site and official page at http:
There was something so bright and remark
ace in its quiet, resolute, and guarded 
"No."
.
 husband.
engine that constantly whirrs up and fal
 had been described to all the world. He
kept--her hand in both his own.
n is not so easy to me, as you represent
s Pross, rising to break up the conferen
nce them."
 Yes!"
he ridges thrown to this side and to tha
**
The official turned towards him with sud
s.
 there were echoes all about her, sweet 
 my darling; he shall be restored to you
 a deprecatory manner, "the anguish of h
ther?"
neur, and therefore foisted on all publi
gged manner. "I _do_ know the Bailey."
ies and incidents--he might see you in t
 very bad!"
and had abandoned her in her poverty for
"And sleeping soundly."
other; 'the young physician, originally 
 the other's words; both were very watch
imself, that great means of regeneration
ery of them even in his sleep. A more re
s will to add, internally, "you know the
forward. His hair could not have been mo
 from the Barrier--I did not estimate th
raw and rag and wood and paper; Hunger w
 and unfair, that I am absolutely lost. 
ieur Defarge returned.
"You knit with great skill, madame."
t very day, rude carts, bespattered with
sfiguring hand; but, there was not one a
 see it, or to record it in his mind.
hat he should have his work presently. H
nd to give as little occasion as possibl
omers who had fallen from their high est
loud remonstrance from an owl in the roo
pear, before the hour of closing, on his
on a level with his eyes, there sat, in 
, that we shall see the triumph. But eve
s top. In this car of triumph, not even 
s Pross stood whispering at his side. If
ese sixty years--because I am a little s
 the Fancy Ball--when the one woman who 
a decided scramble for it, and the three
"I want a passenger, if it is."
e short week, extremely chary of trustin
nd set him on his road. He wishes to see
re, as if with impatience to pluck him o
 on the two Testaments that they were no
y, under certain circumstances--say, on 
t Mr. Lorry's, to his surprise, yesterda
dening the snowy streets with the prevai
In the instinctive association of prison
y, "but I will not quarrel with _your_ l
do you not think I may speak for us all?
et, the sky was clear, and the sun rose 
ul grating, by which any languishing goo
k up her knitting with great apparent ca
her eyes, and reflected a little.
Lost, utterly lost!
et enumerated. That friend and fellow-Sh
 said Mr. Lorry, "I'll go upstairs."
conceded to England at that favoured per
you and I."
 counted as one. But they were very dece
e the apartment that I told you you coul
at height of so many feet; in other word
' door, she turned, laid her head loving
haired man, of almost barbarian aspect, 
many pleasant and natural ways as he cou
fore you, you will bear testimony to wha
birthday, of whom a prophetic private in
m. "And take a pipe with you!"
rsisted, calling after him. "And take a 
Not an emigrant, he hoped, within the se
ple freedom of a woman who had habituall
she had proposed.
y engrained with gunpowder. "And here he
ts. But, a remarkable improvement came u
no one present, and no one now looked at
to see me?" he said.
"Good!" said the mender of roads, with a
aw were stored in that portion of the pl
l."
 relative and an orphan, like myself, wh
ay that Paris is not set afire to-day, o
your power, if you should deem it right,
  Chapter XII    Darkness      Chapter X
wish for your sake Mr. Barsad was not a 
t evincing a tendency to keep his own co
ld watches in his pocket, emulative of t
 might have known as much of their langu
tion. Please to go on."
nbecoming tinged the pride; it was a nat
ked up here--and that so silently, that 
r hideous countenances were all bloody a
here he did not remain, but from which h
orning, with my brains frying and sputte
 was posted, and the sea rushed on.
elf?
ing her way through the streets, now dre
Madame Defarge sat observing it, with su
uggested the Paris fountain, the little 
t would bear considerable knocking on th
radictory. Sometimes the broken reply wa
t of them like a dropsical boy's Kite wi
"I write with so much difficulty, the co
ur ears through the great bank of Tilson
 good creature's way to affect to make l
und it, and did it and made the best of 
.
lay on a sofa, almost from shore to shor
 in no uneasiness concerning his getting
ntoine."
them, with his agitated hand always glid
wear, and had bestowed her as a prize up
on Tellson's. For you cannot sarse the g
help for anybody in their absurd baskets
the pretty witness," said Stryver, holdi
"That my father," said Lucie, hurriedly 
he village looks at him by stealth, for 
re falling, in that same hour of the ear
"The boy's eyes, which had been fixed on
d on the faith of his solemn asseveratio
 equidistant from the two extremes, coul
it bleeding."
as a man of business, I know nothing of 
or his face told them everything.
dge, and stood quiet.
ontemptuously at him out of Madame Defar
it in his behalf. O sister-woman, think 
ssages of the court, the last sediment o
preciative, and that it does you the gre
 a cruel look of being avenged, which th
had considered the question, and had res
 those to others, the neighbouring stree
It would have been of as much avail to i
 and country. The fashion of the last Lo
look immediately rested; so immediately,
receiving his dismissal from it, and thi
nspicuous among these latter, like an an
that is another thing. Stay there, if yo
ger and thumb, that blazed and went out 
 that this disagreeable companion had, o
fellow,' said I. 'Let me examine it.'
 footstep was there.
Mr. Lorry, pushing his brown wig back, "
s, and was seen no more.
aving water and the long, long, dusty ro
" Carton presently said, "why don't you 
 to be answered for, I summon your broth
Jerry with them, as a figure to fill a d
"I know that, to be sure," assented Mr. 
If you doubt it, ask Stryver, and he'll 
ttle wig at both ears as a means towards
l stop at nothing."
There was a great hurry in the streets o
, when the gaunt scarecrows of that regi
h of me?" asked the man, in a furtive, f
e serving man in every possible way, and
o the marriage but Mr. Lorry; there was 
ave a red edge, messieurs. Also, I see t
he senses like a once beautiful colour f
tion between her and you, I could or wou
"Everybody!" from all throats.
derly gentleman advanced from his corner
et-street.
Doctor's bedroom door in the early morni
Mr. Lorry.
covered himself, he may never feel certa
othes should be going to work. In one na
o the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
"this is a desperate time, when desperat
e time--and has been since--to be known 
returned Miss Pross, "but have no fear f
 had habitually conveyed such informatio
ng and morning were the first day, other
ration, as he raised his eyes to Mr. Lor
from the ground, and came running at the
Except for the "Right of Replacement or 
ld man, ugly and wicked, was, and overfl
rmin were not to ruffle him, "to see a t
 to another. The first was the best room
yourself; if, on the other hand, you sho
l flow of company, the master of the win
unction of secrecy on which he had no ne
is death. She will be mourning and griev
ed it me, burnt it in the light of a lan
then, they gave a look of treachery, and
while fastening the door:
 of the bodies into which its lead was f
ul."
ron which could break the prison door of
has for several centuries been on duty w
"So far, miss (as you have remarked), th
The wood-sawyer said he would be proud a
him here unknown to us; he was stopped a
The gentleman from Tellson's had nothing
anslator who brought something to his wo
ke like an epicure.
 many shillings in twenty guineas, it wo
ntence, as if she had been mortally stri
nd struck some sparks of cheerfulness ou
ar. There was a change in the appearance
ple, by name. The frightful deeds that w
s, the night shadows outside the coach w
?"
ing them what comfort he could, and much
in that, I hope, to prevent my calling t
"You might treble that, and say a hundre
droom.
red by heat. When the tea-table was done
hem and laid them in hold, as their capr
 believe you have--make yourself known t
triking manner. It is the case of a shoc
 might be a good deed to seize that arm,
r gleams upon the landscape, the little 
ng curiosity that looked on, could, for 
aturally awaken, with such feelings rous
As their wine was measuring out, a man p
what are you up to, Aggerawayter?"
 Ace of which he has spoken. I admit tha
e in open day, in the open streets of th
on, on the Barrier with the crowd about 
the Revolution grown in that December mo
ep ditch, the single drawbridge, the mas
bout the Project Gutenberg Literary Arch
le family, whose honour is of so much ac
s you derive from      the use of Projec
cocked-hat like a three-cornered spittoo
e it in his breast; but he still looked 
shoemaking might not be a disturbed drea
Defarge gave into his anxious hand, an o
 Such a thing has happened here, often, 
 had been only raised in frightened comp
h I lay down my life, peaceful, useful, 
ocks now flung forward over their eyes, 
e the face had dropped again.
 hotel in that garrison-and-dockyard tow
at there was any village left unswallowe
gh; it would be a pity, I think."
rways too, rubbing its horrible shoulder
funeral was the funeral of one Roger Cly
rtain knowledge, before?"
with the staves of the cask, had acquire
er that his concealment from herself of 
He watched his opportunity of taking Dar
structive upheaving of wave against wave
as now, about little Lucie's sixth birth
nt, knitting, out of the lamplight, thro
ad by men or not, at the Eternal Judgmen
 of building massive and dark in the glo
o you know, I rather thought, at the tim
 family; let us say no more about it."
cie was very strong at such times, and a
 board alone?"
they had heard enough, and that they wer
BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED
return the medium with your written expl
elp, gentlemen--officers! The chateau is
iting for something with a dogged determ
 the door, and mounting nimbly to his pl
o be thrown open, and issued forth. Then
"Alexandre Manette," said Defarge in his
 little flaxen wig at the ears, and foll
in a dark place, like a cheese, until he
nay."
 rustled it, while they examined the sig
on the fifth floor of the dismal house b
orm of Lead. So now let's look at you."
aw the direction--the more quickly becau
Next day he was looking out for her, and
"If you know it, it is enough. What woul
nts of the bowl of money for the second 
 on before him according to the set of t
oom in every one of them encloses its ow
en invigorated himself with a bumper for
"He remains up there in his iron cage so
"How?"
ectedly interposed with the following si
ce that was over.
; a long time intending the journey."
"Magnificent!" croaked the man with the 
his pure soul was exactly what Mr. Attor
ed fortress of the eight strong towers, 
 thrice the time. Then the strong-rooms 
rning sunshine; now, doors and windows w
k, alone. She had never been quite at he
entle born and peasant born; all red win
e voice of the submissive man who had sp
utur' keepin' of 'em safe. That, Mr. Lor
peless, but I have unquestionably seen, 
whom he laid aside his book and held out
oon settled the question of his detachme
"It is a great pity," croaked Jacques Th
h, in touching my hair, anything that re
not calculate the time himself, and ther
ing each date on which you      prepare 
ul deeds that were to be soon done, were
ter him and taking him back, riding befo
re light?"
terment of the deceased Roger Cly in its
there, who knows the city and the busine
Yes. It took four men, all four ablaze w
"I passed you on the road?"
 pain of Death. It was nothing that the 
solent manner upon him.
her husband. The precaution that had bee
"'Doctor, finding my brother in this dif
st, they were a mere storm of coarse red
now, for Concord!"
aned back, with his face thrown up to th
ess abundant. Doctors who made great for
uch delicate complexions artificially pr
ch she presided. Madame Defarge being se
h Tower?" asked Defarge. "Quick!"
t; Mr. Lorry could have none.
ed in paragraph 1.E.1.
s indifference to fire was sufficiently 
and started up from the filthy street th
sturbed sense of sight, but it never mov
 questioner when they had sought the gro
forensic forefinger at the Temple in gen
ts of steps, and again up steep rugged a
daughter, more times than one. I have ob
"Ah!" said Carton, with a careless wave 
rry looked dubiously at him, and led the
nded, and apart from such considerations
looked at it in the person of that plott
trayed to his lips as he looked at it (h
in these common bodies!' he said, lookin
such an atmosphere, by a steep dark shaf
"Good day, gentlemen!" said Monsieur Def
ere my father. You are free from that mi
We ought to have six score a day."
oach. Not only would the echoes die away
there are deep wounds in it. My dear, I 
across the road before his posting-house
im cupboards and hutches at Tellson's, t
rt her; therefore he called out loudly f
"But you are not English," said the wood
ding the chair-back with his left hand, 
of the questionable public virtues of an
e. The other is his brother, the worst o
Monsieur and Madame Defarge again. For s
 horrible massacre, days and nights long
dropped one over him as they sow chance 
flying back against the nearest wall.
n the lightest-wheeled conveyance known 
lying after us, and the moon is plunging
y a poor little thing, faint of heart; n
ul suddenness. But she sat perfectly sti
ts? No. Had not procured them himself, f
 it. Consequently, another drawer, and t
Mr. Lorry reddened as if he were conscio
ossible of doing so. He therefore made a
as became its quality, but awoke gradual
tering by accident at various points of 
fe laid waste, and of our native France 
--when it ran at all: which was only aft
holding about half a gallon. After stand
 before he rang his little bell again, a
close to Darnay that he saw the directio
with the finger yet raised, and as it dr
These occupations brought her round to t
the case, our confidence in your skill a
fro had set it going.
 of his neck; more to be out of his way 
he same seed of rapacious license and op
nay crossed the room to a grated door wh
 Shrewsbury School was to shoulder him i
uncing that arrangements were made for t
and traitorous.
ad-and-cheese towards your matrimonial p
-chamber where the murder was done, two 
r hands. "What is to be told to Ladybird
ind. We are through the village, up the 
arked the matter-of-fact Miss Pross, "an
ob-man, an occasional porter and messeng
"The Prisoners!"
ot: John Barsad, gentleman, by name. The
rt here to-day. I think you were sent to
nette, for your life, don't touch the bl
her, little citizen."
e have seen enough of it, to know that i
 out in something, singly, if they kept 
"Really, then?" said Mr. Lorry, as an am
al impress as the small coinage of human
bracing the ever zealous and faithful Pr
 you think you have--as I believe you ha
r VII    A Knock at the Door      Chapte
Scanty and insufficient suppers those, a
 again! A plot in the prisons, of the fo
e two eyes of each were, bore a consider
nd to be paid there, according to solemn
"After having long been in danger of my 
he happy chocolate to Monseigneur's lips
 touching it up with the ends of her han
th the craving that was on him.
r the plaintiff, there was no getting ov
"Monseigneur, the man."
eble shining of this earth of ours, ever
 way of example), in the regretted days 
man who nursed her baby, was stained wit
ith the crowbar, and worked at the iron 
e restored. On the three following days 
e carriage, and if that brigand were suf
careless glance at him, and then a keene
e shadow attendant on Madame Defarge and
"How many were with him?"
eed to show that this detested family na
eir way into anybody's life, footsteps n
 tone of yours, Charles Darnay."
it is all one to me. But, the Evremonde 
 would take him, and, at my peril be dis
"I doubt, sir," returned the nephew, "wh
ntervening streets as quickly as they mi
nd goers, cross-questioned them, inspect
ice, striking in.
 was blown, and both horse and rider wer
come to a stop, besides once drawing the
rils, some observe these things, and all
k off a blackened string with a scrap of
 to strengthen others.
"No, miss," returned Jerry, "it shall no
s is the natural birth, gradually making
erson who appeared, to offer his congrat
e pendent trinkets that chinked as they 
was real, or with lives passed in travel
o them. He returned no reply, but it was
t an unfounded assumption yours is, I wi
 be trusted."
e wore in long curls, had been hurriedly
 of filling up blank forms for the consi
lt of affliction. The less it was occupi
He slowly shook the shadow off, and turn
at I have been thrown into the prison of
nd not to be alienated inheritance, the 
d _that_ shutting out the sky in a new w
e you love beside you!"
r, Mr. Lorry hacked the shoemaker's benc
being obvious. If the impression were no
though you wear English dress?"
a field of slain, was rising from the pa
 the seat in the window, and had sat the
 it, and handed it to Defarge, with the 
ith the little instrument he bore for th
xiously at the jury; while all the spect
n his body and the diamonds into which t
nce a few days afterwards, and, at Calai
ng at him in a furious manner through th
they, having finally alighted near the S
tood the disused shoemaker's bench and t
p.
e? No. Expect to get anything by this ev
again. "Yet once more! Can I spare this 
l with a rattle on the ledge before her,
 in it. Extraordinary how soon the noiso
blished in their new residence, and her 
re was one among them, the appearance of
 so exactly was the expression repeated 
.
"What," said Carton, still only half tur
arrived at the Bank. The stately residen
sweat, issued orders, issued arms, thrus
d nodded his head, and added:
isurely mount the box, to look at what l
ice, if it is Jerry," growled the guard 
n hour, with the two brothers looking on
d upon her, and revolved about her, they
"Yes; for a walk with me. Why not?"
est, and reported No job in his absence.
lly be, were in no better state now it w
twinkling eyes of the youthful Jerry wer
he Republic would deserve better still o
y woman before her, as Mr. Lorry had see
onduct. Look at your boy: he _is_ your'n
le to remember and understand of what yo
ame attitude some seventeen years ago.
spered the words, glancing fearfully rou
urface. Young Jerry very well knew what 
rein in his horses, and the same voice c
ad.
struck away all security for liberty or 
d to take her child in his arms, as He t
s fellow is a gentleman, I _don't_ under
bride's hand, which were newly released 
t the house from the few people who were
ady got the length of opening the hearse
ever ceased to run, all through the nigh
boy: going and flopping herself down, an
of a garment that the wind shook. The mi
towards this Doctor."
rance; but, she too was a determined wom
y any exercise of ingenuity stick upon i
d Mr. Cruncher, "and I did."
forehead had been strikingly expressive 
ll feel some more of me. D'ye hear?"
werful, abolished the beautiful and good
and had a grand mock-funeral. But they h
in your cradle."
ur senses in a miserable little shop, wi
Not yet trusting the tones of her voice,
workshop. Rising and looking out of wind
d of wigs, like a great sunflower pushin
o goes first? And regarding that name of
uld have to pass the night at Tellson's.
he mud and dust of many highways, dank w
red that vague uneasiness respecting the
rses, poor fountain, all usual poor appo
 be invited. Your reputation is high, an
he life he was to lead; and he no more t
 Promises      Chapter XI     A Companio
s daughter and her child, at any time, t
or-steps and window-ledges, and came to 
eople, to give them what little there wa
 the wall of the cell, behind the prison
our English reasons for vaunting our sup
the family's devoted friend; Miss Pross 
d everywhere, nor the quick saddling of 
er tea-pot; he had been maligned respect
"I think, sir," said the spy, in the mea
ns to his stock of knowledge, which was 
e invested through that old trial with f
"
!"
guage; neither understood the other's wo
 he turned his face towards Saint Antoin
autioned not to go out of town without r
 it yet. If it passed to me from you, to
inspired it."
waited their fate Madame Defarge held da
d proceeded.
restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy i
ee prisons, and among them of La Force. 
e with a Farmer-General. As to finances 
"The carriage left the streets behind, p
pitiable girl.
ir around her had been tainted by the sl
ion to his head, and applied himself to 
Hush!' For an instant, and no more, she 
ng, before which the prisoners were brou
ooking up, as he kneeled on one knee bes
ter days--became impatient for an interv
Miss Manette had taken some refreshment 
seigneur's lips. One lacquey carried the
 a looking-glass let into the wall, and 
re is a man who would give his life, to 
rn; all red wine for La Guillotine, all 
he ghost of a monstrous giant. They did 
eiving the look, did not inspire confide
e that boded him no good.
st night after the box came, till I coul
 be quite impossible."
the last plough as it passes on, for all
f a most remarkable goblin shadow on the
y their needy brethren. To which it must
ine-shop keeper, and the starlight ride.
ng dead--"
seigneur in Town      Chapter VIII   Mon
Ludgate-hill to Fleet-street, and so, up
that our women might be barren and our m
s, and were even then considering within
without your so generous help), is, they
that noise?" His hand was again upon the
"Would he," asked Mr. Lorry, "be sensibl
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.or
s to Tellson's, were always to be heard 
She did not greatly alter in appearance.
t Antoine, she had been true to her duti
you know; you really are in a bad way. Y
st, he claimed his privilege of coming i
"Good evening."
 were lighted, they fared forth on this 
 past. Mr. Stryver and Sydney Carton wer
 angry explanatory wave of her right arm
"If you could say, with truth, to your o
g on its new beach, the attack began.
; the wonderful corner for echoes resoun
een set at liberty on the Jury's declari
terchange the inquiry, "What do you thin
ate that face of his. The nephew looked 
m in silence until he came to the blotti
It was the first time, except at the tri
ay, and the burying of them, or otherwis
coarse woollen rags; but, as they filled
ryver: "I won't go up there now, I am no
-do not think I have the presumption to 
"God bless you for your sweet compassion
wn at her with perfect composure. "It is
ing, though I had none--and when I was b
As he held out his hand for the shoe tha
t can I do for my friend? No man ever ca
e you?"
"I cannot undertake to say that he was."
 functionary of the place, became uneasy
the fortress, and a parley--this dimly p
 hands, "and have it ready for me in my 
Madame Defarge, with her arms folded, sa
him as her love aspired to be, and as hi
ng carriage when it gained the hill-top,
"I think it probable," said the Doctor, 
ends of her handkerchief, and blowing th
o were to be a very few years hence, cou
"But I do ask why?"
"I'll walk with you to her gate. You kno
th, glanced over them to assure himself 
Marquis St. Evremonde. I connected the t
 said Mr. Lorry, who had left her in exa
eople. Charles Evremonde, called Darnay,
he landscape. "_I_ go through no streets
 there is no such thing as an escape pos
yard of the house where the afflicted he
"What do you say, Tom?"
 from an upper chamber. I was conducted 
alf off him, his untidy wig put on just 
ay shook his head and doubtfully smiled,
mpossible; that he was tied fast under t
ig put on just as it had happened to lig
is a Celebration in the streets, and no 
hands together with wild energy, and lai
der of roads, recovering his perpendicul
h a tone as they would have used if they
rything had its appointed place and its 
, the whole Fancy Ball in a bright conti
eigneur began to run away from a phenome
 this wonderful gathering accumulated by
sk me to do anything in my office, putti
r before him. "Whew!" the chemist whistl
y faces, the pressing on of many footste
 the unnatural silence of a whole city, 
e been so put out all day, and I am not 
The wicket opened on a stone staircase, 
oser, and he stopped. The expression in 
That time passed, and her little Lucie l
une, that has kept me out of a prison in
casting up her tear-fraught eyes, "that 
French Revolution
ecept, that "Whatever is is right;" an a
The fellow pointed to his joke with imme
 the point of being at once released, wh
here was tumult, exultation, deafening a
 an unusually emphatic horse, denying th
ike the sort of one to get any, do he?"
remost on the steps of the building; now
Sydney Carton took no heed, and the chem
ad only been ascertained to be a dress d
"That's the name for a thousand pound!" 
 singular expression--but it was pretty 
ure, my darling! More than that," he add
nstrance from Mr. Lorry; his boot was st
"Pray," said Mr. Lorry, in a soothing to
ly have assumed, "Quite sure, my darling
or, to render the thanks of his heart; i
dred and eighty-nine. Now, Heaven defeat
ng while. The spectators dropped off to 
The three glided by, and went silently d
't be troubled out of the ordinary cours
held her; for he felt that she was sinki
chens and sculleries, and fretted all th
a sound so sweet and dear as the sound o
aid Mr. Lorry, clearing his throat, "we 
 to them, and from them to him.
made out of a broken-backed chair cut do
?"
der the plane-tree in the garden!
 a dim coach-trimming maker asserted to 
had quickened the pace, she was left far
r things well out o' this, and never no 
"One hundred and five, North Tower!"
ous among them; her father's firm and eq
And wot little a man did get, would neve
 this old friend, but he must say nothin
 this work in the same format with its a
ad, or could have such a paper. It is go
 behind the architecture of the front, p
 in his confidence with me--which arose 
now something of human nature, and I tel
 the guillotine unnecessarily, and to di
 of High Exchange; and this was so well 
 face, on the throne of France. In both 
ary state apart, moved in a rising wind,
he earlier watches of the night with sol
h over the surrounding vulgar. From this
ll but for that sham. Though how this ma
nd conversations, that argued well for h
Allowing for my learned friend's appeara
tryver, among a quantity of books and pa
erest, nothing like sentiment. I have pa
nly twenty were responded to; for one of
e got a bite. There was a screwing and c
. I mark this cross of blood upon him, a
.
 upon their pillows; in short, that ther
Over the prisoner's head there was a mir
his streets, Madame Defarge spoke to her
 his feet and on his bench. He had a whi
 it rises out of my soul. For you, and f
ined nothing by it. There is no harm at 
lly. It was told me by the Bank that the
 as the prison lamps should be extinguis
y him as having been at the precise time
er.
art were armed in various ways; of the w
 of this, is, to put you all in the wron
ainst the Republic. A strong card--a cer
Lorry's room again, where he found the o
 should have used the longer opportunity
ong with them.
ions of the world--the figure of the sha
am, that ends in nothing, and leaves the
door slowly open, and said, as they all 
eglected, above all things to lay especi
ing suspense, to be passing a whole summ
f the year of our Lord as Anna Dominoes:
e on at its former speed.
'em. For I'm a devil at a quick mistake,
 the man with the bloated face.
upper staircase, of a steeper inclinatio
 his hand. Once again he touched him on 
"That's right; all safe and well! I don'
No human intelligence could have read th
"What did you make of it, Tom?"
think it necessary to mention more parti
rrier, swinging his hammer. "Ay! and con
hew in his bed, if you will," he added t
arge. As early as six o'clock in the mor
ed its effect upon the counsel for and a
, drawing a breath and nodding her head 
 asked him no question, for his face tol
-law."
h you at present. You shall see me at th
ere armed. I was not.
ep or smoke, while others talked togethe
f his teeth. Observant of his unwillingn
him, once."
r drooping over him curtained him from t
ness of aspect left, but had become a se
ld of the door at parting.
 determined woman in her different way, 
 was put to death, already marked by the
ondency!"
!--Don't you move, Ladybird!"
 whom? Distant relation. Very distant? R
, you inside there!"
 mind? The Revolution-fever will have be
 From whom newly arrived, did he come ou
ll that if you had been restored to her 
"Not for use?"
, to wave to me; I dare not call to him;
s as you can. Where is my wife?"
t that the Doctor was not well, and requ
nate to the few swift moments to which i
ng hand on the breast of one of these me
d, remarking to himself with less intern
in his arms, imploringly, "O my dear fri
 drawn in the space by the village fount
"I had no opportunity of asking her any 
us spectators put upon the interest, acc
ilent behind him.
ng up afresh, was the sigh, Hunger. It w
ng sat looking at the ceiling of the cou
d, as the hour, and so to strengthen him
ays knowing this, always seeing her and 
uitor?"
"Eh well! How then?" demanded madame, ty
The Dover mail was in its usual genial p
 Defarge, a weak minority, interposed a 
but all nearly or remotely of the order 
be found by the roadside. In the church 
hour to hour, but that the Guillotine wo
respondingly uncertain condition. Some r
t condition, and looked specially young.
es the cook in question.
 friend's answer, delivered in no very s
ain, one of its wheels came to a sickeni
"Two."
 dockyard, and there collected informati
o her counter to get the wine, and, as h
, frequently point out one man in it wit
The end of the first book.
passing inclination to die of it. And al
 Miss Pross wept over her.
d fawning, what servility, what abject h
er this note for Mr. Lorry. He will then
ho kept the keys of the church, that the
tself to flame and burn. In the roaring 
nd of generosity brought him here unknow
 in the stillness of the third hour of t
their bare legs, and thatched their ragg
d Bailey; for, the crowd came pouring ou
." Jacques Three pacifically remarked, "
if they could have commanded whole barre
"'Nevertheless, Doctor, my sister marrie
k the eyes and ears of his nephew forcib
"
dicating that it is posted with permissi
dy present, when they were thus brought 
ch was set, and Mr. Cruncher and his son
s attention. As he looked at Carton with
er should be locked in an eternal frost,
m and Life. So much was closing in about
"Dear Doctor, will you go out?"
 George Hotel opened the coach-door as h
you, Mr. Darnay; and my best is as good 
"Peace, little Vengeance," said Madame D
ons gorged with people who had committed
"Now," said Solomon, stopping at the dar
secret."
 dancing attitude, with one of his stain
I. In Secret
 answered not at all.
ents are people of condition. As to the 
er; "or I'll out and announce him."
ldn't, even then, be all o' one side. Th
ing, having had some sympathy for the mi
"You oppose yourself to the profit of th
of four months had rolled over the trial
, most especially the last. Samples of a
cards languished, players at dominoes mu
f the tumbrils, stands the Spy and priso
s these Dervishes, were other three who 
, and, at Calais, the prisoner came on b
dney, fill a bumper of punch," said Mr. 
ou have read, understand, agree to and a
 ear; "you make these fools believe that
stead of being counter-prayed and counte
you will be soon at his dear side."
 inside out, now outside in, but on the 
o the supplementary pistols that he wore
The keeper of the wine-shop, always goin
 in London, was Tellson's Bank. Spirits 
it.
es and pistols, entered the room.
st action fought between the British tro
n and touched her face with his lips, he
ould never touch upon that question? I w
urned. In the meanwhile, the Doctor had 
a traitor." At this the crowd roared app
it was drawing him to itself, and he mus
"Do you imagine--" Mr. Lorry had begun, 
A STORY OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION
-tm electronic works in your possession.
This is that written paper. I have made 
quis, I send my desolate cry across the 
When he was left alone, this strange bei
ion, and so long and hard their experien
dropped off to get refreshment, and the 
e held no correspondence."
ight have been easily found. He did not 
ning, under that shadow! Under it, have 
en I was more drunk than--than usual?"
.
een a witness on that English trial and 
 without a settlement; and there was man
flop, mother. --Halloa, father!" and, af
re on his head than his own crisply-curl
ng to the seacoast as quickly as the jou
hat had been, and Kings that were to be,
r than it has of late gone with many poo
 low over the shoemaking.
from meditating any petitions to his dis
shall fire!"
ould not fail to know that he was better
escape in the body, though they may in t
t his beard had never grown, for the Nat
A wonderful corner for echoes, it has be
m in its place. He looked at the two, le
no fountains. Well?"
 lights, as the casements darkened, and 
directed by his will, obtruded themselve
"I have been a man of business, ever sin
ildren laying their heads upon their pil
or ever seek them in vain, be assured."
at I must abridge this narrative. There 
It was a bit of the art of an Old Bailey
work, and not be in his sight. Thencefor
itials, and many fruitless guesses were 
same as if I seen you do it."
inside out, and sat on door-steps and wi
ds were tied to the wrists of those who 
"No, Mr. Carton. I am sure that the best
ere responded to by silver gleams upon t
uin. As my beloved child was helpful in 
e uncle. "Detestation of the high is the
 found among the papers then before the 
"THOU DIDST IT!"
"Keep it for me until to-morrow. I shall
he echoes of footsteps coming and going,
ant young voice; a little foreign in its
ulder, hoarsely and unexpectedly interpo
Giving this citizen, too, good night, as
d place, where he, by leaning over the d
me round, was this:--that he had no righ
s coming to me in my cell, and leading m
bed?"
 is the letter. Go along."
. Cruncher, with additional solemnity, a
iff, black hair, standing jaggedly all o
e. His condition was that of a young gen
"My nephew," said the Marquis, glancing 
eur Defarge alighted; knowing one or two
suspected everybody else, and the coachm
"Good."
 pick up his fardens--fardens! no, nor y
ing. And yet I have had the weakness, an
erry."
 sermon under his flapped waist-coat, as
her own, if she had had a mind, she had 
od, but in my love that was I."
orses are pulled up, almost on their hau
ur match."
f the usual softer implements, and in he
e! I left him safe and free within these
f ease and rest, as the driven slave and
"'See, gentlemen,' said I, still keeping
dst of these fluttering thoughts, the es
ps, and he showed the back of his hand w
f her right arm.
net like a Grenadier wooden measure, and
y, work silently, and no one heard them 
er reticule through her tears with great
 thin wine and beer, and were gloweringl
orner for being delayed till dark. I sho
ourts and passages and staircases. All a
ith:
ife and child clinging to him.
to return or      destroy all copies of 
s as earnest and as loving as your own; 
to the cause of his being so oppressed; 
 Leonora?
d turned it as heavily as he could.
 of knitting under her arm as she worked
ad been left last night when the horses 
he working of the Guillotine; with a sol
ry had no expectation of their ever runn
ard history. But I cannot tell you at th
nd, as if be woe a statue made to hold i
 which the populace sometimes gratified 
lighted on her. For, he contended with h
nded.
have damp ways, and some of us have dry 
"and come out, if you want to speak to m
d Jacques Three, with a meditative enjoy
g so much trouble for her--which last sh
is it not a long time? Vengeance and ret
ory as George the Third. But there was n
ned towards the light, as it had been wh
y saw him, surrounded by all, and in the
 Lorry, "perhaps you would attend to it.
h his presence except for the pleasures 
e dreaded to be asked any question by th
und. He is alive. Greatly changed, it is
rbed, and his heaving breast and shaken 
to bring the price down to porterage and
y, and those were of ever-growing intere
ad his hands behind him under the skirts
addressed to you in the most pathetic to
Jerry took the letter, and, remarking to
so many more will die of want."
 this illustration of his rashness soone
that wetted his young mother's cheek, as
air, almost like the tone of a musical i
, perhaps a sudden misgiving apart from 
is. "A Doctor with a daughter. Yes. So c
unteers and employees are scattered thro
e ceiling of the court, wrote a word or 
said Sydney, "and I have it from Mr. Bar
 bitter taste it is that such poor cattl
Agicultooral character."
being more carefully examined, the last 
e been troubled by a remorse that I thou
 stealing down; "'I never should have us
emple Bar, who was to deliver it to grea
lently shook his head and everything upo
ut a very little indeed.
with such intricate and difficult matter
hen!" the near leader violently shook hi
e to a man who was sitting for his portr
 Fraternity, or Death!
 to live up-stairs, or of a dim coach-tr
look into the depths of this unfathomabl
ay's fingers on the table, and he looked
ut aside again, and that the Doctor hims
with her cruel knife--long ready--hewed 
ncy. He could write of them, besides, in
n his horror of the deed which had culmi
his remains, but I helped to lay him in 
ould avail myself of it four times in a 
r wronged gentleman, and, with a fair se
 of the thing involve the retention of t
"One can depart, citizen?"
p the hill at sunset, the setting sun, t
"I am accustomed to it."
nd blasphemous code of devilry that ever
s was actually done to a prisoner who ma
n to clear over the village.
"Gentlemen," said her husband, who had k
faces of both sexes, the mender of roads
"Don't do it!" said Mr. Crunches looking
the case, was, that my hand upon the suf
ill her love and company have brought hi
ouldn't," said Mr. Carton.
ery refinement of manner known to the ti
e clear-headed. If you could kindly ment
at, and was just being driven away with 
vable inclination on the part of every o
"I could do nothing but comply, and I en
ation of certain types of damages. If an
 a use for it one day. If I do--Well," s
your name, my gentle angel?"
was there, sitting beside her father.
rrow's and to-morrow's, the chain of ass
"Changed!"
nversation, "a fit of the jerks."
 And O the long, long night, with no ret
ller.
n the strait of the day. He turned the d
cie, and her husband, her father, and th
 respects, however, he was so composedly
ffspring, "it's a buryin'."
r two, by the side of Defarge, the shoem
e hollow, at the mill, and at the prison
red--by just so much would he have lost 
t Paris."
ou, Madame Defarge wishes to see those w
s. 'Come on!' says the chief of that com
to have suspicions of the prisoner, and 
rils carry the day's wine to La Guilloti
the history of this unfortunate gentlema
en and women.
e broken-hearted--having never slackened
ing for which he could justly reproach h
ime, Mr. Lorry dared to be pleasant with
spair of making myself intelligible to y
ortress. I have seen her image in the mo
rcle, and let us sit quiet, and hear the
pital itself every night; families were 
--if it ever could be there--I could not
held her tight. It was in vain for Madam
, the Jury declared that they had heard 
use from its own windows. The uncontroll
d--except, indeed, the social doors by w
n separate rings of two and four they tu
ment.
 never occurred to him to be surprised b
e child of his old master, and put her h
rm. "There, there, there! See now, see n
you must give--and which you cannot esca
g has stopped me, I will tear you to pie
 for you under all circumstances?"
ive paces by four and a half." With such
ereby setting up a highly intelligible f
ight denote suspicion or alarm. There wa
can. But, keep in the way. You will be s
 called Darnay, in right of such proscri
future is far brighter, Lucie, seen thro
ce so that it should attract no special 
n for the homeliest people, was very dif
her teeth with a toothpick. Thus engaged
Carton crossed the Seine again for the l
lls which had long encompassed him. On t
 and Jacques Three were not yet up with 
and so he emerged into the heavy mist of
-rave--tear himself to pieces--die--come
, sir."
 against it. But this Doctor has suffere
"I hardly seem yet," returned Charles Da
t not straight, having a peculiar inclin
"That at least is true," said Mr. Lorry.
of the chickens of the Cock-lane brood.
dition, as he now pulled his turban off 
 did what little could be done to assist
-just released--congratulating him on hi
est has taken place. He left the messeng
A certain portion of his time was passed
"
ind strong face which gives me so much s
 brought up among the fishermen of the s
, they whisper at the fountain," resumed
ed thousand muskets.
ting them to beware of the pride of Begg
rcuit by the prison, on my way to my wor
this rebuke. The President rang his bell
 would produce against him that fatal re
dame Defarge's dress:
 street, pointing every way, and designe
 the impetuous confidence of his manner,
ldings, turned into the Stryver chambers
ds there, might have been mirrors reflec
"Did he say anything about America, Miss
ind of the elder, too.
rom him then. He helped him so far to ar
cted to feel the appealing touch.
and Carton's left arm caught him round t
vice by striking her little counter with
re is no real hope," echoed Carton.
d to do so; but, no persuasion would ext
rt, and much playfulness. There was a sp
ds in its pockets, and you could hardly 
ty of low, cruel, and bad, were the dire
many weeks, when her father said to her,
oked up from his notes to glare at that 
ooked in common, afterwards supping at t
vely, and idling his glass (which fortun
ut of a long squalid bag of a nightcap t
s called in--was an odd-job-man, an occa
 retention of the idea? If the thing wer
know no scruple as to means."
 that his head might lie upon her arm; a
im, "to see a thief accompanying my carr
"A good patriot," said the other, "could
e and loud, would have been as so much H
At last, the top of the staircase was ga
ely, as having dirtied the hand on his a
n and unheard--both melting away, like t
ur hair, and shake out your hair like th
d retained to his own occupations. A dis
etter than address you as a young Englis
l use it!"
y-two      Chapter XIV    The Knitting D
 had an abrupt turn in it, they came all
eappear in the morning. You go to the Co
 opened the strong wicket, to whom Defar
December (I think the twenty-second of t
rossed the threshold looked for him, nob
ssed himself in the clothes the prisoner
hen it was dark night.
 or for good), by the story of the Tower
to Life
e unimpeachable patriot appeared in the 
, was as shrivelled and poor as the mise
being a Banker?"
!" repeated madame, contemptuously and a
reeched from the crowd: "You were one of
he echoing footsteps of years.
de 'un."
e coming," said the Marquis, with a smil
s gone by. She knew full well that Miss 
ness who acted as porters at the courtya
t come near us, do not speak, do not mov
oming up here?"
"Hold!" said Monsieur the Marquis. "Hold
ctive sense that the objectionable decor
nd Death in the world you must not delay
im?"
"We shall have helped it," returned mada
 wonderful place for echoes, and a very 
y, one thousand seven hundred and eighty
ide of the bed for half an hour, with th
"But, do not believe," said Darnay, upon
farge took her way along the streets.
Bestowing a word of promise here and a s
me, with my fervent acknowledgments?"
The wayfarer smoked his pipe out, put it
s it was--quite deliberately, as having 
 below, where it is already dark, when I
r, left with his wife. "How many more!"
 legs, was rather like a larger sort of 
hy don't you go and fetch things, instea
ail, where the passenger stood. The ride
or devise. People who could lay hold of 
ets up in the dead of the night, and wil
 in their grounds all night, quieting th
raight upward. I could not see where his
But, his long-cherished desire to know m
as a problem of carelessness and reckles
t. But I think their withdrawing is in y
ddening a little as if he felt charged w
appointing anti-climax, by the disciples
goes his way.
her. In one of those pauses she recoiled
sand seven hundred and eighty, the first
 and Sydney turned away. Within a minute
patient face. She goes next before him--
f his wife's elbow as she knitted and wa
ooked at her.
."
e darling of my soul, is dead; it is the
lving the least offence to the people, b
d his progress twenty times in a day, by
h some appearance of scorn.
il they dropped into a passionate swoon,
ers, in all these frightful years, to gr
e interchange of the first few common-pl
it knitting, knitting, counting dropping
copyright holder), the work can be copie
e stated it. I believe your intention is
o. All its people were poor, and many of
"Barsad," said another voice, striking i
nishment of which no one could foresee t
 frame; he laid the knife down softly, a
fortune, too, she was naturally so pecul
he woods of France and Norway, there wer
: which was a large one.
At first, there were times, though she w
rew. The little boy had spoken of him, a
nd nothing when I let it go, if they are
d, after an agitated pause, "the secret 
 in their places; all was quiet; and he 
d, and would sit among them through the 
far, before they stopped and stood uprig
service to Stryver in that humble capaci
"We have new laws, Evremonde, and new of
e a home when he feels inclined to go to
 Thus, Tellson's, in its day, like great
e present time."
ally. If it be at all, it can only be by
on whatever of his having been brought f
 one day so happy as to make her my wife
e head of them. But, no, gentlemen," sai
"I should have hoped, gentlemen both," s
marrow; and however late at night he sat
"Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Lorry.
 was Mr. Cruncher's conclusion after a p
 he was fain, several times, to take off
his hallowed light about you, I have for
ss Pross, wildly crying, "that I am inca
, was a great relief to Miss Pross. The 
restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy i
rth a sack, a crowbar of convenient size
"Well! To the best of my understanding, 
edly a good Republican? Eh?"
 more trying to the accused than to be c
h which it had to deal, he had been slig
"I did?"
ftened, and was much distressed. He knew
t by the tidings Mr. Lorry gave her of h
"What's _he_ got to do with the case?" a
t ever was, was wrong.
o only deals with such material objects 
o be allowed to write down the thoughts 
irt, sickness, ignorance, and want, were
t to name. I will write too, and--But st
lackened interest, could easily get near
he hearth, and watched it as it dropped.
d again, he struck twice or thrice upon 
on?--Come, once again. Never? Yes. How m
 ever there were love in the world, I lo
done for me."
 tatters of clothes, had, in a long secl
table, among the gentlemen in wigs: not 
ave no feelings; I am a mere machine. To
as such a strong attachment to you and r
top-boots, then in vogue, and the light 
 passed the Barriers. At another time, o
, or additions or deletions to any Proje
rmless ways of life were changed. In the
 coincidence; most coincidences were cur
 chewing, and cogitated.
r lists to French gentlemen, both at Cal
o spy if he had failed to see it, or to 
d, in her sight, with a more sacred char
t would have been the mark for a hurrica
returned Mr. Crunches as if nothing were
 who understood the request as perfectly
ehead with a singular capacity (remember
"How, then?" said one of them, contempla
fever of the brain, lying on a bed.
 your mother now and then, and if you se
der of roads with awe. The traveller had
g as your own; he shall be taken every c
 as a blind, at a place where he did not
l had something disparaging to say, in F
ome sense of having been interrupted.
s of her heavy mind.
r of it, Monseigneur. His head hanging o
need I speak of my father's time, when i
hter's sake, my dear Manette!"
ching them with all he has, and passing 
. Nor, how the lightest echo of their un
of despair, we had everything before us,
 must not delay."
the functionary. "Rise and dress yoursel
cept as to the spots on his nose: "I wou
"Magnificent!" croaked Jacques Three. Th
ld let it go?"
the course of an evening passed with Mis
aps, of banquets, as the starved usually
secret heart, and the hopes and fears an
h the brave old gentleman in whom duty w
nal ornament, before the cavalcade had g
h your daughter?"
 you; I draw fast to an end. Will you le
 happy, without the dark cloud upon you 
not possess the kind of intelligence; I 
to watch its influence, I then sat down 
him what he had done?
amy, had resolved to immolate the traito
rolonged absence, when they heard him on
w me; you know I am incapable of all the
The messenger rode back at an easy trot,
He took the lamp in his hand, crossed th
nswer.
u; useful business. Miss Manette, your m
fidavit, if I could have afforded to kee
ght too, looking on at them, and telling
ain endeavour to discharge my poor mothe
uillotine are robed and ready. Crash!--A
isturbing his outward attention from the
en all the village is asleep, come soldi
of many footsteps in the outskirts of th
oung Jerry, going a praying agin your fa
er said to her, on coming home one eveni
"
r," forensically shaking a forefinger at
oise conventionally assigned to the owl 
etty and comely. Sometimes, at night on 
 this honoured hand."
conspicuous, knitting, still knitted on 
s weeping, there is the heavy breathing 
"I can pass in and out when I choose."
Darnay. "Under what law, and for what of
 that room behind you! Let me look."
days, taken him to France, and might, at
ion. I suspect that I am watched more cl
--not him!"
 father rested his hands upon the arms o
 paper of to-day, and he brings it home,
him!
"Stop!" said the Doctor of Beauvais.
ing of his postilions' whips, which twin
im, and his fully half-insolent manner u
ips, which twined snake-like about their
. Deep would have been the blot upon his
, outside the door?"
"If you expect me to be surprised," said
rty? He didn't precisely remember where 
of prayer, and with a radiant look upon 
e middle in two pieces, like any other d
thought he saw, as he leaned forward on 
im, without first looking down on this s
ost hid his face from the passersby.
"I understand. That I am too old?" said 
en her work would slowly fall from her h
on in the eyes, which not only contradic
grew as familiar as if it had been befor
 he was.
your head is, if such should be your wis
 it altogether."
, madame." The amiable Vengeance added, 
forward force of truth and earnestness, 
 I have acted against them for an emigra
, inarticulately murmuring, wandering ol
 sacred joy to her.
r would have done."
s that made their pavements. Many a nigh
 back that they might see; now, a log of
r; at other times she was alone; but, sh
tooped, and looked in through the crevic
This universal watchfulness not only sto
eing new to the sight, that he made off 
arer's knees. When he stopped for drink,
ny more than if I was a speaking machine
hen the ring broke, and in separate ring
 she uttered no sound; and so strong was
, among the more thorough patriots; but,
rse, denying that the coach could be got
ence."
to both classes of affairs, allied himse
 of the courtyard, under a colonnade, wa
"You had better, Lucie," said Mr. Lorry,
mysteries to one another, as complete as
is under us, the soft deep mud is on eit
ake care of the dear husband you have re
n, but I think a messenger was sent afte
1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remov
house there. "Your papers, travellers!" 
 a Frenchman and a thorough Republican; 
s so strict, that they filtered through 
 head hanging over--like this!"
"And why not?"
is one hit, whatever it might prove to b
ns away from me."
 mean, for I can't call to mind what you
se confidences, and as he watched the fa
e third. They all dropped softly on the 
oned taking. He now gave me a rouleau of
y-splashed arm, until the wheels of the 
 the sea ran high. The likeness passed a
rest and finding none. A clammy and inte
w-plotter untracked, in the Dover mail o
that the sun had never given, and would 
often the sanguine mirage of so many goo
ongfully, and trod it firmly every day, 
 window that was nearest Temple Bar: whe
ss. The rattle of the harness was the ch
uncle's responsibility for that misery, 
"Halloa!" the guard replied.
 it. Not knowing how he lost himself, or
edly, with an unsteady hand. At first, t
"It is all the same," said the spy, airi
but it is so, and it was so here. Carton
plied, "One must have patience, my dear!
     A Plea      Chapter XXI    Echoing 
ong time, and it is possible--you know w
s of age, a misgiving arose within him t
 for the birds, fine of song and feather
 admitted him to his own private apartme
"Did he run away, fellow?--where is that
'Yes!' I kissed her hand, and she took h
 a case, no echoes tell; but it is so, a
oss the borders. A mere beast of the cha
Jury, dear citizeness. I answer for my f
hence. I see her, an old woman, weeping 
 the day before, and to-morrow and the d
"Stop!--Look here, Jacques!"
The three had risen, and their heads wer
 but, his morning's chocolate could not 
, on the arts Mrs. Darnay had once put i
eception in that seventeen hundred and e
ich were discoloured by his late work, t
tty well defined against a watery and cl
ve been a bad thing for me in a worldly 
ith all its might. At this, the nearest 
f feet and voices came pouring into the 
his wife resides?"
ords, and then frowned at them. He moved
ay had its inmates listened to the echoe
 hailed it with joy. She and Jerry had b
"Who seeks him?" answered Darnay.
"Hah! Many suffer with it. Lucie. His da
 up. Only her father and Mr. Lorry were 
his arms.
If you received the work electronically,
us vehicle, climbed in at the door, and 
 it ran; others, directed by lookers-on 
 on his face, as it turned towards Charl
der or confiscation, had made provident 
As its silent track in the water disappe
The figure in the chair between them, wa
starved usually do, and of ease and rest
unt Miss Pross. The marriage was to make
ed, would all be there. Out of the midst
ts."
ny sane man who knew the truth. And it w
"I hope you care to live?"
sh you to know that you have been the la
 charm, was required to officiate "frizz
forehand what the price of his luxury wa
their courtly patients in the ante-chamb
"I don't feel disposed to say much. Who 
hs for burning, was the only house at th
rrassments crept into his affairs, both 
iliar to me, when a gracious God restore
 he said, stood looking down into her fa
the carriage door. They were armed. I wa
he daughter's waist, and held her; for h
 Cly. It was a take in. Me and two more 
u Solomon, and she must know, being your
ircases, Defarge, the turnkey, and Jacqu
any one. Dear me! This is an occasion th
he suburb of Saint Antoine, in Paris, wh
all tradesmen, who did no business whate
On a day in August, when Mr. Stryver (af
ent steering Northward, had not gone far
VI. The Shoemaker
gs it was produced and read. Citizen Gab
ied face, was at his ear. "O me, O me! A
 of this lamp. Ask him, is that so."
ing the moister wine-rotted fragments wi
 whom it was no rarity--and stood waitin
o the coach by an arm in uniform, the ey
th greedy looks.
 twenty-four male domestics sat in his h
t Mr. Cruncher's elbow as negligently as
 throughout Defarge held him by the coll
 and discharging it to mingle with the w
. Cruncher sitting down to tea. "Ah! It 
t after the rest, and had looked on unti
I can't make so 'Nation sure of that," s
, but no skill could have saved him if i
e room; some coming, some going, some br
r been.
nd his neck; and after embracing the eve
With the aid of his indispensable cap, h
The Judge, whose eyes had gone in the ge
 the billowy heads, where steel blades a
t to which the Jacquerie addresses itsel
hateau for fire and candle, and the beat
easons. Upon those, had followed Gabelle
rejoiced around them were lost spirits. 
he had died in the usual obscure routine
ake her my wife, I must at any time put 
kely to follow these idiomatic remarks i
and a desert all around, this man stood 
he was left far behind, and Monseigneur,
 a moment ago when it could think and sp
ecame obscured: anon struggled out of th
"There is a great crowd coming one day i
Madame Defarge looked coldly at her, and
rtain implied warranties or the exclusio
ernly interposed. "Know that a petition 
t, and all went well, and in due course 
ery human creature he had since cared fo
imes gratified their fickleness, or thei
 the windows of Heaven shut, not opened!
--a man of years--a man of experience--_
They had not made the round of their cha
f computers including obsolete, old, mid
seldom did my own."
s on flaring sheets of paper, seized him
 of the tumbrils, and faces are often tu
berg Literary Archive Foundation was cre
ave I sworn by no solemn vow already, to
ies, had not first been so monstrously a
ut I will do my duty while I can, and wh
s growing heavier and heavier, Mr. Lorry
e hands better qualified to free it slow
 some fragment of paving, were found the
re are three lumps of bread-and-cheese t
es." The prisoner counted the measuremen
"Will you try?"
f reconcilement to the inevitable, would
n taken to the house of an old servant i
"Courage, dear miss! Courage! Business! 
reluctance, "ask no more. If the Republi
away. It is safe enough for me; nobody w
d. There, they found two women; one, kni
"What the Devil, I say again!" exclaimed
n appearance of vegetating unwillingly--
orry dropped off to sleep. The arrival o
lack, or very dark grey, and his hair, w
y right?"
rison, and putting his ten fingers befor
es, as just now observed.
inviolate between them. Nobody else knew
e from the hour of his danger. He had ne
hall be what you have heretofore seen me
ly vacant gaze, pausing in his work. He 
ents she'll see that." And she did.
arning, and then they might escape."
e destruction of the old, perishing by t
ppily so much easier and stronger in him
poken of him, almost at the last. "Poor 
s, and not least of all with Tellson's. 
circumstances into view, with the greate
ws of that region should have watched th
mself? No, he scorned the base insinuati
on of a drawbridge; and when there was n
"In making some alterations, the workmen
 hands laid on Darnay's lips.
o Mr. Lorry's at nine, shall I hear what
"It is a long time," repeated his wife; 
ter in the better streets, and ever dimm
 in family. Which Farmer-General, carryi
Manette, except that he is not worthy of
 that the expression of the faces was al
more to be dreaded than this ruthless wo
drink, and worked on, that first day, un
p in its dangerous workings.
pic that oppresses him."
. Cruncher's domestic economy, that, whe
 winking at his ceiling.
own on the bench beside him. He recoiled
ment and want of sleep. As these ruffian
t-be. Spoke good French. Yet like a fore
in your skill assures us that you will a
 one of several, and that there will be 
"Yes," said the Marquis. "You are fatigu
on, smiling, "I find that easier to comp
sely with his eyes.
n Temple every day.
r or lower than the summits of the two g
 streets, with a heavier heart.
rowd, and he, with his hat under his arm
In a quarter of an hour Monseigneur was 
d:
 non-descript, it was the likeliest thin
is daughter, Mr. Lorry, the solicitor fo
r. Lorry, resuming on the shortest notic
arge, and had broken down with them sign
oved all references to Project Gutenberg
ng it. Under the guidance of her Christi
icines that were poisons in themselves, 
ot, a sprig, a peppercorn, which will gr
III. The Night Shadows
al, will not save him."
ntly let them out to somebody who could;
in common sense; I can only find it for 
l barber. He was so very demonstrative h
To this lodging he at once removed Lucie
 with no touch of compunction. Miss Pros
g it may perhaps reach your ears through
 was lying by him, and asked what it was
and revengeful, as they listened to the 
to come on into the place of execution, 
 ebbing out, as if he were a wounded bir
less what communication I might hold wit
Even when there were sounds of sorrow am
w it are exhausted."
uld tarnish in Tellson's hiding-places, 
at I heard strange feet upon the stairs.
Louder yet, Vengeance, with a little oat
," said he. And went on sawing his wood.
s seen her? Therese Defarge!"
 Mr. Lorry advised with Lucie. She said 
 winds were setting straight and strong 
trait!" said madame, laughing. "He shall
pter VIII   Monseigneur in the Country  
sband's, need not be told. Nor, how the 
g attached to it. He opened this, carefu
ion; and her father, always reluctant to
eur's house, and had marked it with the 
and his face dropped on her breast: a si
his own wife included, looked down upon 
"What then, my gentle sister?"
into the other world: traversing some tw
e beside him.
ight!"
ard fare no doubt had their part in it. 
ty, no peace, no interval of relenting r
ich had been glaring at the prisoner a m
 ray or two for him. "Oh, the men, the m
voice. The penitential den once set apar
ted States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our s
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is 
me--"
"Lay hands on this stranger if he seeks 
ime she trembled under such strong emoti
 and reported to you within 90 days     
augh, "don't _you_ be moral!"
t a moment's intermission. The task of r
er among the crowd. Mr. Lorry was there,
at bell of the chateau, nor the running 
dered on the scarf, and had no difficult
Mr. Attorney-General now signified to my
 damages. If any disclaimer or limitatio
ducive to health. What is to be expected
p anxiety, and, above all, such dread an
ge."
 her the question pointedly, and with a 
he head-dress otherwise prevailing. Look
w and a queen with a fair face, on the t
distrustfully.
at 'ud be imposing, too, on Tellson's. F
"I am going to make an offer of myself i
f angering the blood, bewildering the se
 him, and, after remaining absent for an
nd brought it from a closet, and put it 
hing by this evidence? No. Not in regula
"Brother, brother!" cried Miss Pross, bu
count one day, when all days are at an e
s with his own. "Now are you content?"
"Your husband, Lucie?"
r-woman, think of me. As a wife and moth
in danger!"
ion, embracing whom they met and pointin
strong and deep, and carried the time aw
taircase, had it borne in upon their sta
hen they seemed close at hand. However, 
 left it incomplete, presented it before
hing for the streets that environed that
t through the mud. He carried the child 
o remember, that getting things out of P
ad run a mile or more.
e spy.
 should be with him!" said the other, in
ith nothing to bite, Monseigneur began t
l others; the first, that this must be k
sual craving on him, and evidently disap
e moon, "It was twenty either way, I rem
ed their way through the thick mud, flou
ough no streets and past no fountains. W
down, dejected, oppressed, and broken. H
were come, and those who rejoiced around
y, better than I do?" observed Defarge.
n to come out at the low-arched door, th
It was the close of the summer day, and 
ody to be withered and worn. He, and his
the Foundation web page at http://www.pg
window, and I came to tell you. There is
y should you be? If you will lock the do
re, assist you on that side. That's well
was unbearable.) Whether it was a son wh
conductor, he drew over his neck the arm
 divers occasions, and by divers means a
l work was a mechanical substitute for e
or it! Weep for her, then, and for me! G
Antoine; the image had been hammering in
all was not more steady than he was, whe
treets along which the sixties rolled to
 you mean by flopping yourself down and 
r echoes resounded with the echoes of fo
er himself always spoke of the year of o
te was touched, except the remedy of set
 difficulty that the boy gathered bodily
. When the repast was fully discussed, t
ands. Similarly, during two or three hou
is state of suspense, Charles Darnay obs
r? Put some punch to it and smooth it ag
 about it, in which there seemed to be e
 the date of the very first action fough
nybody should be, under any circumstance
"Here."
ad left his country--he submitted before
n his last illness. He was buried in Lon
s young companion's agitation, which bec
her side of the little street in a purpo
"Put it on, put it on," said the other. 
stations that she was the most admirable
r month, wherein her father walked among
some ceremony to his lips. He then condu
It was an oppressive day, and, after din
end? Think again. This is not your prope
"
 however, and went into the guard-room; 
 in the coffee-room of an hotel in that 
ved with a sarcasm that looked handsomel
ok down and took to Mrs. Cruncher throug
 what Mr. Attorney-General had described
mistaken you are, and what an unfounded 
ld in so very low a whisper, that not a 
fted her; he took his wife in his arms, 
e--which arose out of my helpless situat
tle pile, which blazed high and hot. Sto
arge, with a lowering smile. "Influence;
 on the bed.
 turn to blood, and the stone faces crim
Mr. Lorry were with her. His arm tremble
nothing distinctly. With this on his min
 him--"ten o'clock, sir."
ith mildly quavering speech. "Who wants 
 happen, he had only to shut himself up 
nding that he would return by-and-bye (a
isclosed to her the state of his heart.
hey shouldn't loose a splinter of me. No
ry.
ur hair like this of mine!"
 be delivered half an hour before midnig
ometimes her husband himself sent a lett
box, with my name on the outside. From t
" and throwing off other sarcastic spark
vils, and get taken to La Force. It may 
hed the doorpost down below; and, as the
m getting on!"
re was a hurry, too, in all his thoughts
was not merely desirable to avoid overlo
"Is it possible!" repeated Defarge, bitt
y.
s there a sleeper more inscrutable than 
drove a contraband trade in European lan
essengers have done dread deeds, it is q
?"
he said, looking down at her with some c
fell. The escort were so wretchedly clot
f it wos so, which I don't say it is--"
nearer.
e."
and always gliding over the network of f
wn, a head was put out at the window, an
ote until he had finished, read over to 
 where the witnesses go in, and show the
ecated any praying away of his personal 
 betimes, and went straight to his bench
y, with meekness; "how are you?"
d before you. I come from her--your wife
tead of having been extinguished.
ghbouring streets resounded with the cla
se, and he would accost it again.
brace him then; it is but a moment." It 
ected with anything that was real, or wi
In effect, the sun was so low that it di
ried Lucie, most earnestly, "I implore y
ere Darnay had seen the associated priso
" answered Mr. Lorry, shaking his head. 
 stream of sparks and tore away into the
 fixedly at the questioner.
th his face bent down. His breathing was
om-door, and the worst is over. Then, al
"I am going to tell you. The door-keeper
iant look upon her face, in which there 
ered necessary, by those who know, and w
efarge whispered it closer in his ear, a
was held, and extinguished the ashes wit
d even Tellson's, important as they are 
gate. He was soon over, and then the sec
ened attentively. He had already glanced
. He then conducted the young lady strai
weaker people, might have seen how safe 
at latter repetition. "The ghosts that v
to, or other immediate access to, the fu
se, that it was a shaggy-haired man, of 
tion and the life."
served in English to The Vengeance, whom
 high that it struck a kindly ray as of 
ons upon tradesmen! I'd catch hold of yo
morrow, if cause given, a floppin' again
heerful at the little supper. They were 
andles on the table in the middle of the
nd a dingy hearse and dingy mourning coa
 pen.
"Coming up the hill, and at the top of t
oads, "a year ago this running summer, u
"Shall I show her to you? Will you come 
and secured at that angle for the time. 
or you. My duty is to my country and the
p to twelve, and say, 'Hush!' There was 
ing forms, until his mind lost its hold 
s work.
 "there are frequent risings in the stre
 the thunder-gusts that whirled into the
the man at the tavern, whom he had charg
orse's head to the yard (the drunken pat
another spy commissioned for our quarter
became known and encouraged. He was well
"You did good service at the taking of t
r fifty in all. The people in possession
h French intelligence as was most to be 
ny years ago. He turned his head as they
"Do you believe that he thinks of it muc
why the devil don't you?"
idst of these, beating their breasts, te
on the sufferer's mind, and how difficul
arkable face, Mr. Barsad," observed Cart
Nor was he; but, he had been expected wi
showing where balustrades, arches, and w
hter of Doctor Manette, the good physici
rge, without being asked.
 of the coach-lamp on that side, and rea
 aspect, that all the eyes that were tur
you please, committing you in no way, re
emptory manner of Monsieur Gabelle; and 
te, that night and other nights, whom th
ting to buy bad bread; and while they wa
ad no difficulty in arriving at the conc
echoes die away, as though the steps had
ge flowed unseen and unheard, and the fo
The young lady goes before all."
"I am not frightened for myself, my fath
 base insinuation. What did he live upon
some days, to return to England. Early t
nd I had better trust my life to the cha
and they were all three reminded of the 
llent, and so forth, prince, our Lord th
er little child was born--"
ed this exultant sound with mysterious s
There's the roll of them dreadful carts!
cie, "you are ill!"
annot safely leave this place yet.      
ven twenty years of life, to petrify wit
ate as ten o'clock, Mr. Stryver, among a
 at the courtyard gate, rendered them oc
ooked down, with an admiring pity, on th
roperty of my poor father, whom I never 
 of my establishment. But, now that I re
"It is as the good patriot says," observ
is towels anew. From these pilgrimages t
th two men.
 in all the hollows, and it had roamed i
The Doctor turned, with his hand upon th
t a convivial turn, Jerry Cruncher worri
"Nothing connected with Charles was conc
s madness."
arge of the wine-shop at his gun, grown 
adame, after murmuring it once to hersel
 in the furnaces of suffering until the 
the displeasure of the Republic.
. His chair was opposite to the window, 
e this!"
octor Manette. This is the writing of Do
h as were interested in the matter, that
they began to have an awful sound, as of
"If it was a light answer," returned Dar
elish. There was no drainage to carry of
th have been seen with her at that place
om he directly remembered as Defarge. He
Paris, with Suspicion filling the air, f
y, high-booted and bearing a lantern, se
nd duty. Heaven be with you!"
ction to this, and as he foresaw that ev
 for that, and the conference was ended.
 to let everything go on in its own way;
tation.
 have still supported him.
thout a guinea haunted the spot where hi
urney on foot to Paris. On the road I ha
hand to his neck, and took off a blacken
, with your leave, relate to you, miss, 
he loving little plot that kept him away
s into the second: not there. He already
"You will be good to my poor husband. Yo
 and maturely considering the spot.
ixed with fear. With this strange expres
nder the gaoler's hand; and the appariti
t bent their heads to me as I bent mine 
 grave, not all the staring curiosity th
pose; nevertheless, Monseigneur as a cla
oing: not for my staying away. It is saf
m me, weep for it, weep for it! Weep for
nd which I shall see no more. I see Her 
essages, as the spirits of this very yea
lace--then fair to look upon, with not a
"How long," demanded madame, composedly,
he weakness, and have still the weakness
y under the impression that the Christia
r Manette?"
w down and their hands high up, swooped 
il before his catechist, "I do not quest
f health for the sickliest, and of youth
neficial influence with him almost alway
ity could make no mark on them.
ve, listened to the whispering trees. Su
 recently attained her five-and-twentiet
, and moving gently about it. They were 
ht."
been upon his throne in all his glory; b
thrice running: it might be, not for a w
dian of the drum, could have wakened him
 so well, that my name is made illustrio
 raised her eyes again, went on:
op stopped to strike the wall with his h
"Where do you go, my wife?"
t sort of society. You are a disagreeabl
quis, "I will preserve the honour and re
ng worse than a sweet, bright constancy 
it. It is the case of a shock from which
hecks, online payments and credit card d
op, always going a little in advance, an
Master Cruncher (who was in his shirt) t
od!"
A favourite at the Old Bailey, and eke a
II. The Grindstone
ay heavily for his bad food, and for his
r as a prize upon a very rich Farmer-Gen
ty. But, the same consideration that sug
"Did the man run away, Dolt, when we sto
"You need have good cards, sir," said th
f legs; he was hauled to the nearest str
 in the open night-air. Other sound than
vement, with their many little reservoir
There was no pause, no pity, no peace, n
Miss Pross, with a terrified face, was a
men."
way that he might hear no more, and rema
in his absence. The bank closed, the anc
tion and how your efforts and donations 
"Oh! Did I say that?"
 pair of moist bright eyes that it must 
nging to his hand. Miss Pross had laid t
t heavily, and his tray of shoemaking to
e better side of him, was wholly unprepa
at Monsieur the Marquis. Perhaps, to obs
fit of the jerks upon her, and yet no Hu
ion of promoting free access to electron
 hint at it to him. In silence they go w
did so. Citizen Gabelle hinted, with inf
lemen! In the king's name, all of you!"
at last. Yet the current of the time swe
driving in between them like a pigmy cha
Ask my husband, is that so."
t when she is clinging to you, the hands
A TALE OF TWO CITIES
"I tell thee," said madame, extending he
ut the door he sought, and handed in his
l things ran their course.
 unfeeling; their ways arose out of the 
ts from the first, nothing has stopped m
long, long night, with the moans of the 
Take it, monsieur."
The strong tide, so swift, so deep, and 
 from his feet, and quietly walked downs
shouldering itself towards the visage of
on, grossly infamous; but not the less l
ree heavy hours; for three heavy hours, 
hing, lay hold of it, and hold on by it 
round the carriage and leisurely mount t
, that its whole surface furnished very 
nes, and when the stain of it would be r
e abashed Mr. Cruncher, "that a gentlema
n anchorage, and there was. The Doctor o
 injured family, if the sister can be di
ilence of a few moments, during which th
 to him.'
han he was, when he stopped under it to 
be, not for a week or a fortnight togeth
t he should keep it by him?"
 would you have been looked at by those 
stion so hard to answer, that he could o
It was the nephew of Monseigneur. He had
that very moment waiting for the complet
Carton.
could strike. The fingers of the knittin
ict confidence; it is not business-like 
"I saw this, within the first minute of 
ges of absolute monarchs, the equipages 
s of the sun brought into strong relief,
in the shadow of the Bar, Mr. Cruncher a
g companions.
"No thanks to you in brown, if she does.
 show that the prisoner went down, with 
ARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THI
already glanced at his hands more than o
y captivity, in making shoes, to the tim
farge; "I have a good deal to do."
 of house and home. I won't have my witt
ieties of men came out of it. Consequent
t.
s. Ridges of faces are thrown to this si
tone, "a face I can look at, in all this
"Touching those signals, little citizen,
"In her name, then, let it be done; I sa
native British orthodoxy, to talk of thi
t's lips, "hear me speak. My husband, fe
It may have been a signal for loosening 
e, grind the axe, and hammer the nails i
"Never," answered the mender of roads, r
 Charles's ultimate safety and deliveran
is reason for regarding this Doctor with
 head.
e was yet on Saint Dunstan's side of Tem
ugh they had been there a long time. Whe
voice (though in a low tone), and in Eng
"Not at all!" From Miss Pross.
rms towards her husband, with nothing in
 your self-denial is to be referred to y
tiently rejoined, 'With twelve o'clock?'
but friendly and soothing sounds. Her hu
htcaps, and all smelling of rags and nig
that every beating heart in the hundreds
on was confirmed. "It is best," he said,
ever saw him."
y were profoundly unsuspicious. But, an 
arness one day at noon, to feed--if he c
r the Banking-house. As there was no bus
he dropped the door key in the river. Ar
ent God speed, young Jerry seated himsel
or none; I am even thankful that it cann
o be much obliged to me."
After a few dull efforts to get to sleep
e truth."
" cried Lucie, affrighted. "Hush! The so
sed away by her husband from the soft bl
ven, and would never take away.
ration that suggested him, repudiated hi
 his answering in the affirmative, "Then
eme submission. Monsieur the Marquis ran
re not. You want that sense altogether; 
 check. She stopped in the act of puttin
ndonment of consideration not easy to be
His tone lingered in the air, almost lik
use, and the echoes in the corner before
 up his ears and looked back, without co
pped for drink, he moved this muffler wi
ned out by the guard.
s distress."
. On one of them, which was a fringed sc
aying the sentence set forth in paragrap
young man of about five-and-twenty, well
 in London, sir?"
 as Defarge. He noticed that she once or
 ways as he could think of, that it was 
fer his congratulations, was Sydney Cart
r significant manner.
oung lady's father, Doctor Manette. Who 
extraordinary scenes with which the popu
 more happy to execute it."
d his clenched right hand to remain clen
 the window of her room. Before he went 
who had bestowed her name upon it.)
oments, said:
rticular, any more than in the drier par
"Farewell, dear darling of my soul. My p
," said Stryver, coming slowly into a si
eligious one! You have no more nat'ral s
ss you bring to him, begin. Let our good
lly remarked, "He is so much in your min
You follow me?"
All the people within reach had suspende
 torn out with pincers, and his body bur
ey never came, and this was the usual pr
ck in a blue cap toiled through the dark
s, a lame way. You summon no energy and 
y of light fell into the garret, and sho
prisoner?"
nto it, all kinds and varieties of men c
Miscreant Foulon taken, my daughter! The
 fountain.
re the coffee-room fire, awaiting his di
 there declare his noble mind.
 waiter came in to announce that Miss Ma
ry clean white cloth was spread.
in the clear whiteness of his face, was 
d them all, and explained his worldly af
 looked to without delay. He was then dy
 contend with, would have yielded before
e there, and all will be well."
y, that he made off, with his hair as st
ingly, half as if he were angry at being
lf. The result of that conference was, t
!" growled Mr. Cruncher, "it's you I hav
e of your bargain."
xious to hear of the witness, Miss Manet
. And yet I think--" And there he shook 
, when it was necessary for the French g
that pair of shoes to-day?" asked Defarg
been a man. Indeed, I may say that I was
e for which it had been reserved, may ha
e, he at first supposed that his daughte
and devoted to his daughter and himself 
ethodical toilette, Mr. Lorry presented 
not all of pity--that had a flush of pri
untry roads there was no hope of return 
ad it all. No more can I look into the d
orry, "to be entrusted with the charge. 
"It is enough that you return straight t
upped as at twenty.
ty, costs and expenses, including legal 
 men, not one. But the woman who stood k
ed with the knife, will be burnt off bef
speration, settle his odd little flaxen 
"At a little after midnight."
ries of--"Live the Bastille prisoner! He
l that if I delay, there is danger of hi
ason to believe that Lucie loves you?"
to have her sight obscured for a minute 
e in the far-off perspective, lowered di
nything save narcotic medicines that wer
When the newly-married pair came home, t
les of the right hand in the hollow of t
It wore itself out, and wore him out wit
the men at the windows had not yet swoop
"No."
 upon their starved fancy that the expre
her breast. Among the echoes then, there
ly disposed of, they would probably have
ht to have. He walked on the other side 
 it is so. Consider how natural and how 
closed in that the son-in-law of the des
t broke clearly on his mind. "Cly! Disgu
ng did die out of him, and he refolded h
ctor Manette's house as much as I have, 
pouring round the corner by the prison w
alike in any particular, you and I."
dred ways.
"Oh dear yes! Yes. Oh yes, you're eligib
the initial letter embroidered on the sc
ad been really otherwise; but, they were
of men and women: not enough in number, 
reckless in his demeanour, not only gave
s shut up in the narrow compass of one l
ut.
m that looked ill. In the hunted air of 
ance: the more readily, because certain 
more than once happened, that the Judge 
n case or bag. What the unknown prisoner
l the Bank closed. He was again alone in
to-night, which have presented their dan
"I received a letter from the Bank, sir,
depositors rusted in prisons, and when t
. Jerry, you honest tradesman, it wouldn
 that shock.
"I do not think so. I do not think," sai
 at all?"
ave a very good opinion of your understa
s our man."
all of a red colour, and to have red hai
 life-thirsting, cannibal-looking, blood
is head as they entered, and showed the 
 friend of the United States--as he brou
ing by the counter lengthening out a sho
ng vanities and giddinesses of empty-hea
"Going?" echoed madame. "She was pretty 
thing before us, we were all going direc
 to the Future, for Monseigneur's guidan
were left quite alone. It was when they 
sked no question of the servant; going t
ugh the fallen and unfortunate King of F
one staircase, leading upward. When they
ime, when he was requested to do so; but
e smith's hammers were heavy, and the gu
's knife. It lay on that side of him whi
he less musical voice of the Judge, as h
certain what to do," said Miss Pross to 
he elder said:
inet minister, driving the mourning coac
set was awakened after daybreak and befo
, like the soul of the furious woman who
em, to help themselves, at anybody's cos
artificially preserved and mended, such 
nd hummed a little song over it.
t know how earnestly I say it, how earne
s passed before him, of a child whom he 
 Why not?"
 lighted up at supper, all things ran th
different way, and she measured Madame D
girlish form, a sweet spare face in whic
 span the air between him and the sun, w
nunciation of him. Seeing it, he poured 
play, "he's a tradesman."
So at last began the Evening Paper at La
The idea was so acceptable in the preval
There ought to have been a tranquil bark
is, because what I must bid you to do fo
vity had worn; but, he covered up their 
ds to say it this time, after observing 
he lowest, cruelest, and worst populace 
 mire-deep leagues that lay between them
e them--all worn out.
s of the wildest savages in their most b
 wouldn't put yourself in opposition to 
a mob.
d better flights of men. If you doubt it
but to wipe the mud from his face, and s
st.
and was not trustworthy. The spy would h
 occasioned candles to be borrowed in a 
mplished, when Charles Darnay began to p
nced to him herself, and asked him what 
ir, but appeared to find the speaking on
amation, and withdrew, with his two fell
II. The Mail
 in a long seclusion from direct light a
awayter?"
nly house at that end; all else was wall
his long unreal ride, was, their all at 
ing yourself down, flop in favour of you
d of the many times her husband had said
less, "I am shocked at the sight of you.
 often disinherit its sons for suggestin
y, I shall be laid under some other heap
ecause he happened to have his own littl
al loosened his dress, went into an adjo
s, to have a certain opinion that he tho
 knew too well what it meant. One. Two. 
- You provide, in accordance with paragr
 words, and presently took the rose out 
"You have acted as if you do; but I don'
 chase, and a crag with a fortress on it
st, the river dark and dim, the whole sc
r, on that self-same night, or morning, 
"What is this?" cried Mr. Lorry, breathl
At the last words, he stretched out his 
dly; perhaps he had not seen much in his
n.
 Therefore, he resolved to keep Two befo
inquiring look, and a forehead with a si
ellow of hard upon fourscore when there 
rn and ragged, and her arms were bound t
She sighed "No."
oking at him with surprise.
r, to be directed towards the National P
hat it is."
ours was incomplete?"
 to identify him if I can: you, to resto
 "nobody can doubt that."
 warmth resumed.
by which they communicated being put ope
"'There is another patient.'
nobles, the toilettes of flaring Jezebel
from the earth. If I knew which rascal t
oolest manner (as if they themselves wer
eaven I will do it!" Thus, Doctor Manett
now. I believe it."
in his hand, hearing the sound of wheels
"Ah! So much the worse! A bitter taste i
It is possible. Perhaps yes, perhaps no.
 See now, see now! The best and the wors
 over the streets.
her head, and giving them a quick look. 
ed in the Saint Germain Quarter of Paris
tting before a cheery little log or two 
these matters, not only stopped him in h
here now; but, the three men were there 
Nonsense!"
 God for; is it not?"
on the stair. In a few moments, a man st
igneur, early in the afternoon. He had d
e were rather disinclined to this course
say with the fair daughter to whom he is
not a single word in reference to the di
o the English Crown and People, from a c
ore nine, in good time to touch his thre
u naturally think so. Of course."
 is so weak as to relent towards this Do
beneath the banking-house window that wa
"Willingly, sir," said Monsieur Defarge,
wn hot.
ck feeling, and thought, "And here in th
ame sternly retorted, "I tell you a good
e the good old man was gone. Sydney Cart
o real hope."
wered the first; "but you can ask Him of
"I believe it is something of that sort,
der which I have lived."
It had once been noted at the Bar, that 
 twenty-four hours before, but no skill 
, still keeping my hands upon her breast
laming logs, which was tumbling forward.
ily, filled with Condemned. Lovely girls
"Will nothing of it remain? O Mr. Carton
n voted aloud and individually), the pop
m English!"
passed along towards Saint Antoine, he s
d to stand in a company of the dead. Gho
ddle some half-hour, taking note of thes
ay of being among them, with the first r
ely) to so few! It used not to be so, bu
tions of the audience, thus assisted the
ere, on the chance of our knowing where 
The young lady, to whom all eyes had bee
 and blowing the dust off it, and foldin
d this last evening for her father, and 
risonment, without trial, or even accusa
ich was at that remarkable time--and has
 over the trial for treason, and carried
tion more particularly what it is."
 them, and the bulky bundle of opposite 
e night of his arrival. Every one of tho
r to it within himself."
  Project Gutenberg-tm works.
fore:
Through gloomy vaults where the light of
t the taste and skill of the time could 
is wife, in husky tones, while fastening
wife.
man.
women, by-and-bye."
d to get a little closer to one another,
ead to her fresh young bosom in the garr
he first Jacques said, "Good! You have a
d to, will render me less worth such tea
d a terrible day, we are worn out."
th this second salutation, he threw a bo
 together, had strengthened), that many 
eads the cows out, the cows are there wi
arest. So far, we are not pursued."
at the table, and listened again until t
per was the word "ACQUITTED."
wo friends of high public mark, twenty-o
n who had come to lay down his life for 
"Do I say yes, mamma?" whispered little 
 went down the guardhouse steps and turn
ion is high, and, as a young man with yo
, and ever dimmer in the worse--and by l
 he had it--in these times, as he raised
rgerie was short and dark; the night in 
 of summer, in the rains of autumn, and 
 if it were possible. Mr. Lorry was a pl
 one prisoner, who seemed to have gone t
 his remarks upon it, and the jackal ass
is bosom.
hed beside him, under close inspection, 
or you!" He got his arm round her, and h
ious questions. It is Jarvis Lorry who h
bouring smithy, or other workshop. Risin
ge. Two men had entered separately, and 
 on hearing when the day closed in that 
was the family's malevolent enemy.
twenty-three names, but only twenty were
e made and given to him. He put them, on
ms, ruinous buildings, dye-works, tanner
ard. That is your consolation. Keep it."
rossed swords with a peasant, and that p
"In secret, too," grumbled the gaoler, l
d driven from his sacred countenance, th
 near us till he was dead. He came in an
msy even to the eyes of a mender of road
dence, and her father had entered on the
xt neighbour, and added, "I'd hold half 
of self-conviction, "that anything but t
e many years ago, and we are now intimat
twelve?'
 of yours. Bah! Put him aside, Monsieur 
ng; upon that comparison (injurious to h
s, the nearest stone face seemed to star
 miserable, but now with a manifest sens
s and crossed the river by the bridge of
The watchful guard, with his right hand 
on in winter was an achievement to congr
They began to descend; Monsieur Defarge 
 saw you before the Tribunal to-day. You
 to discuss the question. I am, as you s
you're right. Likewise wot I'll stand by
s mother!"
a good end, my friend; it was not mere w
 back, dragged this man forward, disarme
ith their turnkeys, and the majesty of t
r of roads, and two hundred and fifty pa
l at seventy-eight. How many people will
. Lorry sat at great books ruled for fig
 village where the fountain fell, and wh
Its owner went downstairs into the court
nd paced faster, to draw his mind with h
."
"Ay, ay, why not!" cried the sawyer. "Ev
y in the earlier part of the day; but, w
ut permission and without paying copyrig
"Perfectly so, madame," replied the spy.
instructed. I may go on?"
is no Marquis there; he is Mr. Charles D
ith my common blood; he drew to defend h
er, I should not be so composed, for I a
did it. Let them bring another."
antom that my mind pursued, was another 
ough I don't prefer any claim to being t
s, as he raised his eyes from his lonely
Notwithstanding Miss Pross's denial of h
etween them, was all the time monotonous
 muffled drums with a wild swell of voic
arer and nearer to the beginning. It see
aining the cause of her satisfaction to 
o his sight; the world was narrowing aro
nce Shrewsbury," pursued Carton, "you ha
r may be a flopping at the present time.
 the street, if anybody acquainted with 
ain travelling, the long journey, and th
 and in its obscurity there was ignorant
the ties between me and my other and far
In the black prison of the Conciergerie,
 they last came, where they began, throu
"You speak collectedly, and you--_are_ c
nd truthfully, as you have stated it. I 
from me?"
 he had himself. He left Jerry with them
n--like myself--timorous of highwaymen, 
oing footsteps of Saint Antoine escort t
lock in the morning, sallow faces peepin
es. See! Give him that."
"Not much boiling down to be done to-nig
"Long ago."
 in it. "We should look at this!" he sai
"I can bear it, dear Charles. I am suppo
lid reply. The officer wrote until he ha
He was so deadly pale--which had not bee
These things were within Mr. Jarvis Lorr
"In this prison that I am going to so un
ay to do it.
n the passions they expressed, and in th
 negligently as he might have stood at t
ral. But they have found him alive, hidi
 she was a handsome old lady, that she h
t away to join Lucie and her husband. Th
end while Mr. Attorney-General turned th
ve us the head of Foulon, Give us the he
poor history pervaded it all."
-the--image; the fancy?"
sional claptrap, I don't know that I car
im.
Monseigneur having eased his four men of
n had ancient faces and grave voices; an
the first starting, they were beyond the
taken during her absence, examined the s
iginating any other kind of action.
rtune on the Doctor's daughter, resolved
 a few things that you can do with most 
d now, Sydney, old boy, I want to say a 
onsieur the Marquis, with a large stone 
r far away.
hin the gate, and lay there a little--li
y have had one. That, as they were not s
y would have, word for word, at the tips
their own horses or dogs, they only know
will not be executed; they say that peti
were very watchful, and intent to deduce
 the elder brother, with the initial let
ave my Leave to Pass. I was ready to go.
 at dominoes musingly built towers with 
ve committed myself to that extent. Mr. 
ees.
ything that arose before his mind drifte
she hurried into the room alone--for Mis
a heap of stones? Had the birds, carryin
llowing, and said to the latter:
ent, the agreement shall be interpreted 
nted by his son: a grisly urchin of twel
"And yet keeps that bench and those tool
and thanking her, and protesting against
m, had dammed it into little pools; thes
e church, across the mill, across the pr
the regeneration of the human race. It s
 don't mean half you say; and if you mea
his agreement.  See paragraph 1.C below.
 grave, arose in his mind as he went dow
Confused by the emotion of the day, and 
ature.
 talked together, or loitered about. The
nt enemy.
 struggled and got lost, but who at leng
"I will. I am going to. You can bear it?
Christian name was effected, Madame Defa
 or Death!
moves with them as they come, tramp, tra
"There's all manner of things wanted," s
Sydney Carton filled another glass with 
d these upon my sleeve. 'You will leave 
of the old size and shape. He took up an
he Goddess of Liberty, and then swelling
tion, but the regular moment's pause, in
ely, there has been," he paused and took
ke the lead, my dear friend, and keep it
, spun round alone, caught one another a
"Ah! most gracious Monsieur heretofore t
eristics. Simple as the furniture was, i
 had overflowed, to the door of the hous
had had their full share in the worst of
ed group of talkers. It was a raw evenin
vered letters and other memorials of pri
--that wot my opinions respectin' floppi
wot I have ever said or done should be w
estination was the old church of Saint P
"
s which.
"
rtue of our sisters, many years, but we 
ring it down one day."
 she lives in a farmer's house in the so
and faithful Pross who lifted her; he to
d before him. For the rest, the Old Bail
day when, lately arrived in London from 
"Do you ask me for my advice, Mr. Stryve
d her father, who were following, and sa
often walked out, before dinner, with th
ong them; nor compressed lips, white wit
ners of his mouth to his ears. "On the t
e Judges, Public Prosecutor, and determi
smile on his features, and a cautionary 
oned as a wonderful corner for echoes; i
"It should be very beneficial to a man i
st?"
es        A Story of the French Revoluti
ve a secret attraction to the disease--a
as he was? Come on, and have it out in p
in the darkness of the night, and swallo
en ashamed of your moroseness there! You
 to make amends, ran down the middle of 
s beloved wife fresh before him, to comp
y persistent in his end, never doubting 
emain here. Change that cravat for this 
t's it about?"
is, though I could dispense with the esc
e, as to urge no influence against me. I
t, "Citizen Doctor! Wife of Evremonde! C
see that he was dying of a wound from a 
nd went out.
ngle French word were slow to express it
r, as he stopped short, "and your return
ords to look at, and such delicate honou
"My husband, it is so. I fear he is not 
er and to you. There has been no new dis
he king's palace to the criminal's gaol.
which our business is transacted, and of
"It's the damp, sir, what settles on my 
 with people--he could not conceal from 
 two took much heed of her.
"You will see."
r," said Defarge, getting down, and taki
titude of the gallows that would turn to
l four ablaze with gorgeous decoration, 
ted registers, and denounce people whose
He took out a blackened pipe, filled it,
ive-grounds and among the cropped grass 
t workings of this poor man's mind. He o
ning it and its passengers, should be re
g was fresh with the day, and his qualms
laments of silk or glass. His linen, tho
hey looked in at every place, high and l
d a leaf of the herbs with which it was 
, solitary, in the dust, not often troub
hite locks in the Paris garret, were min
orth in the General Terms of Use part of
board the packet, or speak to his conver
ay; "let me get to work. Give me my work
 the dose that I desired to give. As I i
rote a word or two on a little piece of 
s to carry out its mission of increasing
"They tell me so."
and get a light with tolerable safety an
"Now don't be angry at my asking all the
 the breadth of another line.
onfidentially on the desk: whereupon, al
Pressing his hand to his bewildered head
him? Believe me, Miss Pross, I don't app
d the sun rose bright, placid, and beaut
row!"
and went out. The Vengeance followed. De
 this must be kept secret from Lucie; th
s of those who carried them, with strips
uard," said Mr. Lorry, getting down into
"I am saying nothing."
"Death has done that!" said the Marquis.
are mine, saith Monseigneur."
m the circumstance of his holding Mrs. C
"An hour, if you please."
 existence, than to erase one letter of 
ate access to the full terms of the Proj
being once in--even if it wos so."
thing new in thy family; remember it! Sy
ewing the cud of nothing particularly re
m. A strange thrill struck him when she 
een quite at her ease with him, and rece
 my friend," returned the uncle, with re
Lighter and lighter, until at last the s
 of that, and he looked quickly at Carto
ignal, the prisoner was removed to the i
e and few, the Doctor, Mr. Lorry, and Mi
ey are turned towards the prison. They w
ispering low, but showing no other emoti
egister him. How do they call that man?"
ed surprised by the question and by her 
orward by the butt-ends of muskets.
ry bustled into the chair, and was carri
body in "the Captain's" pay, ranging fro
ing, so belonging to the circumstances i
s immeasurably better got up both by Nat
e nearest attendant, and from him it had
rg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause
 its dainty cushions.
ny monsieur and himself to Versailles. I
knew enough of its antecedents to know b
and on another, Monseigneur affably pass
 in all 50 states of the United States. 
brought him otherwise into moderate requ
"Pooh!" rejoined Miss Pross; "you were a
o the purpose that you say you are."
When they arrived at the gateway where h
t solicit contributions from states wher
ested family name had long been anathema
 charged with any written answer, but pe
or monsieur's information?"
turn of the mender of roads to say it th
c, they would have been these:
ing it in a dream,
n hunting the beasts, for whose preserva
is inward and pondering manner, as he lo
quis, glancing at the supper preparation
 or all of these men, were disposed to s
ily responded to his daughter's drawing 
as old in the treasonable practices whic
emonde! To the Guillotine all aristocrat
ended by Miss Pross carrying a light. Th
 been brought from his prison to that ho
and good, he used his personal influence
aid Mr. Lorry, at length, in his most co
 also tell him, from me, that after aban
t alarming tendency to hold forth as fro
und was my sister, that husband was my s
the same red hue was red in their frenzi
"Heaven grant I may, Carton! But how?"
l I hire a carriage and post-horses?"
It lay back on the pillow of Monsieur th
t in rust and repose. It's a gloomy thin
rvant, and had engendered in him a holy 
d lay, as to him, beyond the Dover mail,
me also," said the nephew, gloomily, "th
"My dear Manette, it is the case of an o
their several arts and powers of self-de
e a day."
He moved from end to end of his voluptuo
f the inn servants, and soon settled the
r what things, is next to an impossibili
n, was visible in the inner distance, an
gled on, with the jack-boots of its pass
.'
ad already explained to her that his con
 an evil spirit, seeking rest and findin
garret, and showed the workman with an u
rging an enemy, and the furious reckless
but, on Mr. Lorry's return, he slipped a
ortnight's end, he comes to join you and
A woman of orderly and industrious appea
the hill-side, and the sun is again abou
out with Charles Darnay. He was so deadl
"She might think a thousand things," Car
th the case?" asked the man he had spoke
r, sitting on a stool in a public place,
d fro in the Temple considering what to 
th looked in unspeakable astonishment at
"And now we have done, Sydney, fill a bu
 side by side near the carriage door, I 
 he knows well wot that there Cly was ne
d gaiters into the general weight of the
ard, in gruff soliloquy. "Hallo you!"
ssibly doubt, that a system rooted in a 
ish of fraternal embraces and congratula
called it, in familiar conversation, "a 
missed; for, nobody who crossed the thre
cap, the rough medley dress of home-spun
a sign of recognition."
ot speak of one without the other; and I
Don't be a moment behind them, for I wan
im," said the spy, quickly.
ght.
by tone and manner, "have the dear child
ing at the conclusion that I had seen th
With a long breath, he answered "Yes."
All these trivial incidents belonged to 
g round and round before the morning bla
, looking steadfastly at him.
and the great door of his chateau was op
leness, or their better impulses towards
he chain of association that brought the
"Don't be alarmed, my dear Miss Pross. I
come in aid of it, and bind her closer t
ered small coins before her, as much def
olutely always, for she could recall som
it but to empty his glass with an air of
ty Thousand; in the name of all the Ange
n stopped with his glass in his hand, he
 his arm securely round the daughter's w
e had been days upon his journey in Fran
every rapid sentence a whole breath. Thu
Saint Antoine had been, that morning, a 
ll never be found when I am dead of the 
 the Court was gone, or it would have be
uch higher, and draw comfort down.
g unwillingly--a dejected disposition to
 about this matter, for, as a man of bus
however, and Miss Pross, exploring the d
d them safe, and strong, and sound, and 
he memory of the chief and his subordina
 his bad time, to work at a little forge
cept of a library of electronic works th
, even in the tenderness between a fathe
vation of his own last grateful love and
 worked with, they worked hard, until th
o the prison of La Force. Will you cause
been besieged in its Palace and "suspend
orse at Tellson's door, who made off wit
udience, he might have thought that the 
here a neglected fountain had overflowed
and he made his formal bow to Miss Manet
tter to hear about new eBooks.
 with a strikingly greedy air, as if he 
o was nearest to him, told them afterwar
he right of life and death over the surr
with you."
far at sea. A face habitually suppressed
returned home to breakfast, and all went
is, smiling. "How do they call you?"
h his. She said, in a low, distinct, awe
ut any means of presenting my case?"
madame; "but don't tell me."
uary 23, 2011]
ame Defarge let him go--as a cat might h
"No; but before I go on," said Stryver, 
reets; but, the women were a sight to ch
strong arched room: sometimes, resting o
 am, sir!"
kept himself in his place, as a physicia
h drove away. He now stepped up to where
 desired in the leader of the Saint Anto
 our station, in these days, might (I do
The traveller fared slowly on his way, w
e burnt off before his face; that, into 
"That's true," Mr. Lorry acknowledged, w
his gun, grown doubly hot by the service
 loved and hoped.
ing their names to himself. The worst of
 girl. Here and there in the long street
another time, our parcels would come and
 narrow end, always on the point of over
s most courtly manner, there was a secre
its enemies. I will go to her."
of Evremonde! Child of Evremonde! Any pe
d cost nothing to lay down if it were no
he sun. "Gracious Creator of day! To be 
ts integrity, under the sky, and by the 
me insolent delicacy respecting his daug
lways was for England (by way of example
was dark, and he sat before the coffee-r
the coach and half out of; they remained
"Are you mixing that other bowl of punch
s no good. Come! Give me your authority,
addresses itself with more and more of c
Before that unjust Tribunal, there was l
more honoured and held sacred in the oth
ch the village showed a lively inclinati
ing for a moment, that he _was_ overwork
hat he was therefore travelling under an
e the full Project Gutenberg-tm License 
rnt houses, and by the sudden emergence 
said Mr. Lorry, doing all he could to pr
nk, than to remain in this city, so drea
an, represents himself to his employers 
uisite gentlemen of the finest breeding 
as very kind. That was very thoughtful!"
 flavour that one might have supposed si
usion of this piece of advice by strikin
p the stairs that led to the court, carr
he Republic which is to do so much good 
ried for his life by it, as the foe of E
r, when he made shoes under my care. As 
e passed a long night up there, with the
 I leaving my work on the road, the sun 
 at that date, was a choice illustration
an at intervals, by darting out of his s
h a face like a fine mask. A face of a t
nch construction. To exclude the cold, o
to everybody now here, and no one can te
air from turning grey, it imparted a pec
"You remember the place, my father? You 
nfluential there, and deep in its danger
other pause of oblivion, and he awoke in
Book the First--Recalled to Life
? He's as thin as a lath. Do you call yo
o home!"
en London and Dover by the mail?"
gh? All our lives, we have seen our sist
though it was but a small instalment of 
ourse, the passenger in his fancy would 
"At another time, sir," he returned, eva
d Carton, wistfully.
"And when the relapse fell on him, was h
en as Madame Defarge, taking her way thr
ly add to her trouble. Don't speak of me
id he live upon? His property. Where was
s Eye, more lords and ladies, more Long 
rclouded him fitfully, without any appar
n hair, like her own, lay in a halo on a
new ties will be formed about you--ties 
asking her any question, until I had tol
d her father, press upon her the necessi
e."
So cowed was their condition, and so lon
admittance. On this occasion, Miss Pross
f passing and repassing between France a
of the year before. That, it was certain
y was flourishing, a matter of fifty, no
 one added, "For the love of Liberty;" w
uit cannot be described) would wait to a
Sydney was none the livelier and none th
nd. "Cly! Disguised, but the same man. W
 in your pure and innocent breast, and t
him as before the Bastille fell, or old 
windows; not even a chance passerby was 
 as neat and as well attended to as the 
. Him, Darnay heard with a particular fe
et her feet had trodden, he lifted her a
 and who had been sucking the rust off h
f in a fair way of getting shot instantl
essenger, uncomfortably seated on a form
. Lorry took, as though he dreaded to be
"You are not the gaoler's daughter?"
"What is it, my Lucie?"
He sat down in a chair on the hearth, ov
e a rotten red. It was taken to pieces, 
rnay began to perceive that for him alon
oth of us, in such different ways. Even 
ht before I came up with it.
rd: not more than forty or fifty in all.
it into the basin in which he had steepe
e by, some pains to drill to the compose
 For, it must be recorded, that not only
ls that he wore in his belt, looked to a
"Draw on these boots of mine. Put your h
less fingers and the croaking voice. Thi
s passing affliction so happily recovere
, and am about to return to him!"
peak intelligibly; he thinks they are st
"Not to understand your play," returned 
aligned respecting a mustard-pot, but it
ourse on which we now stand pledged to o
 old head o' mine, I think not. Would yo
orth that effort. It would cost nothing 
lasps his hands, and looks upward. There
nd the crowd groaned; but, no more was d
 Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a
 wore knives, some daggers, some ate and
*****
d and became deeply attentive. It had no
 regular succession, with the cry, 'My h
"That. At the back there."
time in our French House, and had been--
y, he wore no coat, but carried one slun
he grindstone whirled and spluttered. "W
out it, however confusedly. This encoura
owever, inseparable in its nature from m
ened for any sound that might denote sus
y back.
o knotty, that the jackal found it imper
ve referred it, I think, to everybody no
"You are not a shoemaker by trade?" said
"God bless her for her sweet compassion!
ng, and expressing in as many pleasant a
It struck him motionless. The gaoler sta
The old man uttered an irrepressible cry
st get ready at once.
--these, and the solemn prayer at night 
fe was endangered by his absence. He had
with the exception of that reference to 
 I say, stop there."
the circumstances, rather agreeable to h
aces.
ever seen since his arrival at the Barri
l, and the winnowing of many bushels of 
ooden drawers, particles of which flew u
ncapable of any compassionate feeling ab
touching him on the shoulder as he was g
hysical medium, you must return the medi
tion, promotion and distribution of Proj
his gentleman is no spy, and why should 
ive or dead--I might have thought that H
odly half of the polite company--would h
ving in their faces: clattering at a hea
o Domini seventeen hundred and eighty. (
elf that Monsieur Gabelle had to do with
tial together. Nothing was represented i
ris, "who married the daughter of Doctor
on, striking his open hand on the table,
ved. I am not a traitor."
rd.
dancy of gesture (he had once been a men
s plotting and indignant refugee; and Mo
bove all, for his daughter's--his daught
 wanted.
y even whisper that because he has slain
thin; still, in the effect of the face m
ity against those who were cut to pieces
 her darling's bonnet when she came up-s
ade a bow.
e watched his opportunity, and smote the
"I have come back, sir, as you anticipat
 even showed surprise when he saw Mr. Lo
he hand at Newgate by the dozen, and now
"The old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury
"It cannot be, my child; there is no Tim
 earth that ever did murder by wholesale
a dab at Miss Pross's lips with his own.
guished.
, were caught of the jumbled neighbourho
 tears. As if all that had happened sinc
 shortest notice his methodical manners;
s should be clearly marked as such and  
"Give me the worst first."
ention from the Jacobin editor, they res
ce. That, the man sitting as President h
 amends I can. He will never prosper in 
 cannot say for how long, because I beli
no glow left when the drag was taken off
 I don't know what papers."
er of fifty, not to speak of fifteen yea
t my lot in an island?"
t if the coach-lamps had been blown and 
en they were opened and shut. Your bank-
only a pronoun, which is not much) ran: 
de; is it not?"
e are pressed."
rayer at night for one dear prisoner esp
able with this file or online at http://
ere are large drops of rain falling, and
 bow again, and took his seat.
avert the wrath of Heaven from a House t
"I heard you were released, Citizen Evre
"That is another way of saying that I am
t voice answered something. Little more 
hree of one name who had been drinking i
r. Lorry; "this is our poor prisoner's d
e-shop, and every human drop in the cald
 the dialogue taking a turn that did not
a solitary prisoner to understand these 
, if recalling to life was to come into 
"Yours," said the gaoler.
ng in the surf at the South Sea, until h
e door was opened, or as it opened, a ma
ther villagers and townspeople less fort
d she constantly uttered piercing shriek
ose their eyes, and think, or try to get
"He lies!" cried the smith. "He is a tra
on her questioner and not on it, "has mu
 was very pleasant, too.
at was it? No business of anybody's. Had
coach was immediately filled with eight 
his chair, but did not look at him, or r
time taken quite a lunch of rust off his
tering at a heavy dragoon trot over the 
, and smote the young gentleman on the e
 there. But when it came to that, they s
e Spy and prison-sheep. He looks into th
ediately took her post at her desk, coun
s length on the floor. After taking a ti
o marks. "Do me the favour to recall tha
t for her friend.
 those days, so the street outside Newga
"Bad Fortune!" cries The Vengeance, stam
ant on his sword-hilt.
e some money last week instead of being 
d they were alone together, the nephew, 
imes the honour to entertain your gentle
te my letter that night. I rose long bef
me see your hand go nigh 'em. For I'm a 
diately after his arrival.
 and looking in, he made out the three f
in a bad way. You don't know the value o
s nature. You can say what it is."
mes, we stick in ruts and sloughs there.
lways had his points at his fingers' end
e mail to the summit of the hill. The ho
 through the streets, as Defarge and the
aid Carton. "I begin to have a very good
s, it was the age of wisdom, it was the 
The word "wife" seemed to serve as a glo
th sides, "to what would you refer this 
 careless wave of his hand, as if he wav
sed the hall, or a stranger peered about
 You know that it is among their Rights 
o had committed no offence, and could ob
"My dear friend, I have a charmed life i
tm electronic works in accordance with t
t least, she will never be _his_ vassal.
s, touching him on the breast with his f
m shore to shore."
nd upon the sufferer's breast had this m
er and surprise, and looked at Darnay wi
here has been a violent stress in one di
t down into our country to be executed o
t weakness is this, my dear! Let me go t
ne faces of men, and stone heads of lion
 one. I have observed her to-day, and I 
eleven."
 time resolved, if his door were broken 
ly manner that abominable place would ha
 my suspicion that you've been at it fro
ery indifferent French) for a small meas
 he did, methodically, and with as loud 
ong and feather, took no warning.
t Madame Defarge took up the rose, the c
hapter XVII   One Night      Chapter XVI
to blow her boy out?"
twelve. Hush!'
farge, in a low voice, looking down at h
, to the last of your bad race, to answe
I should hope. Within an hour or two fro
 there was yet some wild-beast thought o
toriety that has since attached to it. B
rge!" She stood immovable close to the g
 has no good in it for me--except wine l
 Devil. Let us go on."
 their high estate. Again: those nobles 
 interest I have in him; it is all one t
Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and ca
hat new delight--divided her breast. Amo
nder the President sat Doctor Manette, i
ipe at his shop-door.
elf," he said, softly, to the latter, "s
"Early in the morning, the rouleau of go
s, and passing tranquilly to his reward.
"I am growing more and more unequal to t
e Bailey. Much better," said Jerry, not 
s the power to protect at such times, to
shredding spare onions and the like for 
k your name and condition?"
y, a means of exporting a copy, or a mea
s possible; though we will hope the best
t the key again, and held it in his hand
ent them on, or stopped them and laid th
asion would extract a word from him. He 
latent uneasiness had been, that bad aim
your hand at this moment, by the side of
, is involved in it?"
 For you, and for any dear to you, I wou
 and precious matters were this very day
of Madame Defarge's head) of having his 
y, any time these fifty years almost!"
"These scraps of paper fail me. One was 
ndow, and the Doctor looked for explanat
"I don't know, Mr. Darnay; I told you it
ging-letting way--and marry her, against
ed the passenger, then, with mildly quav
tion against gaol air and gaol fever.
his assurance out of personal endurance 
there," pointing to him who had tossed t
 taken and condemned."
"What is it?"
ition of her last reply. "Tell the Wind 
e case to useless lumber.
strong of hand, whose acquaintance he ha
The mender of roads, blue cap in hand, w
n the midst of them is a tall man with h
While Sydney Carton and the Sheep of the
arkness encompassed them. Another darkne
 I am not a bad witness."
ecided, that day, to write privately to 
 child, carried by its mother, has its s
 one among other reasons why the worship
ore him out with it, until the Bank clos
ch for contraband goods, and the mob fir
He lowered the window, and looked out at
s afterwards; more probably a week after
r. They have had their shameful rights, 
ming and going, yet not a footstep was t
ild in his hands.
 One.
 long wrung to the last point of enduran
th her on the edge of his grave, not all
nd Two, separate and put yourselves at t
orid countenance of Mr. Stryver might be
entence--had there been a chance of any 
es came slowly back, at last, to the fac
 said the man of business. "Good night, 
hing else than this. I know you are true
glass of cognac, took a sip of fresh wat
Having made, at least, this one hit, wha
em below the snow with a deeper dye, the
excellent, and so forth, and those of th
 a favour to be protected from the lamp-
ciple of Izaak Walton, and the two trudg
n Opinion      Chapter XX     A Plea    
reat courage and spirit, had suffered so
voluntarily some time ago, among the mor
t, or not know that, you shall not leave
him, looking round for instructions.
d the like for supper, while many were a
oubles me--just a little."
 first saw her. I had come and gone twic
ed themselves anew; while even my Lord h
"You are a cursed emigrant," cried a far
"The last chance is gone: it was not muc
 a man of a very remarkable appearance i
cted in a low tone of voice, and termina
the relief of tears, I fell upon my knee
ection of Project Gutenberg-tm electroni
 him; and replied:
uching on the bare ground famished and n
turn to be angry; Mr. Lorry's veins, met
e of Truth--which did not need much demo
horrors surrounding them; in the towers 
retched hour I am ignorant of both.
nette wept mournfully for him as he stoo
o playing cards, two playing dominoes, t
red and ninety-two. More than enough of 
sidering within themselves whether they 
 that I denounce the husband of my child
r a fact, years ago, in the quiet corner
kinny finger would not have pointed to i
business eye. The arm of the golden gian
In the morning, with my tools upon my sh
 fine pulsation in the two marks. "Do me
ning--hiding--doing anything but stoppin
u      prepare (or are legally required 
ards when I traversed it--it struck out 
is honourable employment in England, thr
k to that time, deepened as he dwelt upo
Web site which has the main PG search fa
"_I_ have been there, as you remember," 
ckal sat at his own paper-bestrewn table
be cautious!" cried Lucie.
e will perish; there is no real hope."
 There is positively a mania among some 
ercies. And them and their descendants, 
ritten to you by your old love, or by yo
y the other two passengers, who immediat
at was it you said to me?"
In the midst of a profound stillness, sh
 to comprehend him without overstepping 
 a low bench, stooping forward and very 
"Why! Because he has lived so long, lock
of books and papers littered out for the
e to their minds as the footsteps of a p
had been a fellow of any sensitiveness o
o keep herself concealed from me at this
 behind her, on the frame of which, a ho
"As to you," said she, "you would shout 
r.
oaning. They spoke in such a tone as the
ay he was, in so much as a word of one s
r. I have made it my business to examine
"If you were shown a great heap of dolls
 fire were not wanting among them; nor c
and that units could avail him nothing.
ise, struck the man in like manner with 
, Jacques Three! This is the witness enc
s, now, for listening to the trees and t
, I am shaken, Mr. Lorry, by Doctor Mane
Doctor Manette received such patients he
nd they again slid away into the bank an
ime was not come yet; and every wind tha
sense. It's new to me, but you are right
 here, yourself. Mr. Stryver is here too
You will leave me them? They can never h
. Confided to the cares of Messrs. Tells
 into wild beasts, by terrible enchantme
e him. And when, at the fortnight's end,
"Yes. T'other one's was one syllable. I 
ession. They had not traversed many step
 him.
ed in a moment that it was his name. The
ing but stopping.
"Worth no more than that," repeated Mr. 
ed to be uttered in their regular succes
e easily found; Princes that had been, a
woman as a third. It was a very muddy bo
ed in the dark not many hours before, to
if the dragon's teeth had been sown broa
tte. "It comes slowly."
 shower-bath of mud from Fleet-street, a
int of heart; nor should I have been abl
well worth looking at), and at first, as
, now I believe that the mark of the red
e trial--evoke this condition from the d
yebrows and his confused white hair, tho
 as it used to be when he did that work;
 when delay was the most to be dreaded.
t he would be frightened--rave--tear him
 of you with your father, and of this ho
. Lorry, touching him affectionately on 
es the prisoner had laid aside, combed b
at his side. If he had had any particle 
. When he cared to talk, he talked well;
prematurely cold), and on his honest and
 at random, seemed to shape itself into 
as to suppose, sometimes?"
ublic prosecutor. No favourable leaning 
l be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm 
"June 21, 1792. "MONSIEUR HERETOFORE THE
"Is it the immediate object of this conf
The opened half-door was opened a little
any one to the oblivion of a prison for 
Lucie was to be married to-morrow. She h
e who died young. All my life might have
astille paper describes, is my family. D
to be a woman."
hat he had lived many years in England?
is stool in Fleet-street with his grisly
nd was soon at the fountain, squeezing h
"I'll hear what you have got to say. Yes
to get back again. Here I am, sir!"
"I am afraid of it," she answered, shudd
 never you stir from that fire till I co
ey had been all ears. But, they had no e
, where you meditated on a misspent life
tient eyes, rose from the seat where he 
?"
He looked down at the floor on either si
.
dozen times a year, at most, he claimed 
is moody way.
he floor at his feet, clinging to his ha
nd most honourable Privy Council. That, 
Every fine straight line in the clear wh
"And why not, citizen?"
ent of plate as you have made 'em, is en
igneur's guidance. Besides these Dervish
 to pitch himself head foremost over the
e ghosts that vanished when the wicket c
a heap of statements, which is among the
d shall I hang back, when Tellson's know
would be happy to see the gentleman from
ies, took place in the capital itself ev
urable leaning in that quarter to-day. A
e a sight to chill the boldest. From suc
"Indeed?"
he Wine-shop      Chapter VI     The Sho
ong yielded to the calm that must follow
iend as he made the punch, "who cares mo
oors again, and remained there. A curiou
! Almost a night, Jerry," said Mr. Lorry
epast, friend?" he asked, in due season.
that, been in the habit of passing and r
ople did not present themselves. Mr. Dar
"It is true, madame."
"It did."
, man and wife. The Vengeance assisted i
)
lay," returned the spy, somewhat uneasil
. His lonely daughter, bereft of her fin
ey might eat grass! Foulon who told my o
 a responsible jury (as _they_ knew they
"He is going to pay the forfeit: it will
had no parent, so she is now devoted to 
She curtseyed to him (young ladies made 
you know. Which of the two goes first? A
 any inquiries, because it would be dang
t would seem to be always the same quest
oss, the wild red woman, strong of hand,
 who drank it was to make them gloomy. N
ep.
effected at last; the Stryver arrears we
l in his metempsychosis no other than th
 removed; for the street opened, where i
h they had died in coming there.
an active weapon which they flashed at m
. He was delivered to you. You see I am 
"I hope you care to live?"
eat, and trickled down into four rugged 
 them'?" Carton asked.
 shadows on the road, and lay cunningly 
ep was strong and prosperous among them;
itorous ways to thrive (which happily it
themselves through the black mist that h
ed in that place like an inappropriate c
Sheep was a cant word of the time for a 
d down, complacently admiring, but never
life or wholesome aspirations.
agnole.
"Say then, my friend; what did Jacques o
 brought to my living grave.
 that had led to it--as if observers of 
lained Monsieur Defarge. "Leave us, good
He stared at her with a fearful look, an
 St. Evremonde, of France. Confided to t
 been on duty watching one stream--savin
that time as a likely time for solving t
 traffic in Fleet-street, with their two
r taxing functionary united; he had come
que on the untroubled pillow, and his ha
rouble of one wife and mother would be m
 a rough tribunal; Jacques One and Two s
 wanted a handy fellow, and the prisoner
d the inheritance of any part of the ago
eat trust he held was not his own, and a
at was distasteful to him, and a station
led by name to Monsieur Lorry, an Englis
damage or cannot be read by your equipme
"Your husband is not my business here," 
 never stopped until he had run a mile o
e. At first, he slept heavily, but, by d
ce--all France itself--lay under the nig
at the guard suspected the passengers, t
aul, she had acquired such wonderful art
"
erted all things good by nature were bec
.
 of the knitting women were vicious, wit
-bound visage. "So _you_ put him in his 
st competitors as a youth of great promi
ss that he cannot trace himself--as I on
sleep that night. He slept heavily, and 
ce of the cruel Marquis, burning at the 
the Bastille Captive removed him from al
s, a ridiculous exaggeration. The learne
sensitiveness or delicacy of feeling in 
e come here to take you from it, and tha
our fierce figures, begirt the blazing e
cry of "You are going to flop, mother. -
ted prisoner had dispersed, under the im
ted by the porter. There is no earthly d
 it would probably not be what he was or
With a hope ever darkening, and with a h
constantly occupied; trusted, respected,
 sand of the sea-shore. What private sol
ack mist that had fallen on him. They we
mong the many unhappy souls in prison an
nner. But, few cared enough for that to 
ay be not. Don't let your sober face ela
 Miss Manette, is not conducive to healt
 Cruncher.
 in the pressure of business imposed on 
hands on Sydney's arm and looked up in h
into the train of the night shadows with
 mark, twenty-one living and one dead, i
nd of any money paid by a user who notif
"I do not quite understand," returned th
id Mr. Darnay, as they sat under the pla
"Monseigneur. For the love of the great 
 the barrier of dust and chaff that had 
uch morsels of bread as might serve for 
Madame Defarge beckoned the Juryman and 
h; "here is one of his soldiers to be le
d-and-butter, and seeming to help it dow
Abbaye, that were not yet made.
 a throng of people came pouring round t
"And that is--?"
t here! See her knitting in my hand, and
he famished people that they might eat g
me again!--to a better course? Can I in 
id not allow the restraint that was laid
row afternoon are few and short, but try
glish and half French, that nothing coul
"Now, let me recommend you," pursued Str
"Under a threat?"
t, closed the window and the curtain, ha
o the period of his suffering. It gave h
efarge, The Vengeance, the Juryman, the 
band, my father, and my brother! One, tw
ded myself to it, I have been alone, and
its greatnesses and littlenesses, lie in
in in prison one year and three months w
"I think so, too."
his softly-slippered feet making no nois
ather had spoken of hiring a lodging for
one day to give up its dead. Some passin
In those days, travellers were very shy 
kinds of pride confronting one another, 
--over to England."
d so long, locked up, that he would be f
isturbed; "wot's come to her?"
 streets. Barsad proposed to the rest, "
" says a knitting-woman of the sisterhoo
ting my morsel of black bread as I go, I
ind, Mr. Lorry would then cautiously pro
 they were not rich, and Charles, throug
he crowd about it, when a coach going ou
ss. He walked by the stream, far from th
 seat where he had observed her sitting,
g but desolation. Every green leaf, ever
 The Knitting Done      Chapter XV     T
t, and the rope broke, and they caught h
rops on it. But, he said not a single wo
 Bench-walk and Paper-buildings, turned 
nder the efficacy of his wife's petition
I am going to Paris on business. A crown
doing him harm to-day."
acid, and beautiful.
"Respectin' a future spear o' life, miss
originate, in such a case. If your sagac
s, a sudden vivid likeness passed before
ction and extermination. Ask my husband,
heir own way from Sunday morning unto Sa
 water and the rolling of the Fancy Ball
muscle of his wicked face: "I believe th
ich had taken anything but a convivial t
ld--I have imagined her as coming to me 
ists of his day's duties, fell lightly o
ght string, making him look almost as if
nd burst out of the Bank, causing such a
s the same) conceived the humour of impe
ot bitterly or meaning to bear hard upon
End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A 
tty desire to convey to him that she fel
ing, Long live the Queen, Long live ever
d Darnay!"
"Not dead! He feared us so much--and wit
his course.
nd that post-horses would roast.
acters) on her fair young face, that it 
k. Where I make the broken marks that fo
ack to the children, wailing and breadle
another pint of this same wine, drawer, 
s laid low before it had been ranged on 
at he had seen in the last nine days, he
 my good friend, and leave the law to ta
e blot upon his escutcheon if his chocol
egan it, it was hard enough; not that I 
ar his door, and retire to hold counsel 
ine. I see him winning it so well, that 
ade it all.
ensive quality from every pore, had walk
His collected and calm manner could not 
ho majestically works out the appointed 
not sarse the goose and not the gander. 
r husband acknowledged.
o moderate request, and he earned as muc
?'
rse, and whose temper was so overbearing
eople who are not at all worthy of Ladyb
"I was startled, and asked, 'Is it a pre
s went forth every evening, and were rea
tended against, and recovering after the
 mentioned the young lady to me in sligh
 platform, not unattended by a suspicion
the very stars out!
e.
ng his, decided Mr. Cruncher. With an en
ong an impression had actually happened?
 are a man of business and bound to have
ave been half so forcible. Mr. Lorry's s
 minutes, he got up, tossed his hat on, 
 them. He moved a chair with his foot ne
ack to their cells. That, presented by h
time to strike a man with Lightning," sa
"Take that message back, and they will k
The papers are handed out, and read.
"Yes," repeated the Marquis. "A Doctor w
"And why wonder at that?" was the abrupt
emain freely available for generations t
"A. M.!" croaked Jacques Three, as he re
when they entered the wine-shop, though 
k a question, Doctor Manette, before I g
His constraint was so manifest, and it w
he solicitor for the defence, and its co
eally does good to the poor, and they co
ere, prejudged, and without any means of
and poison, the way lay. Yielding to his
re reaping the fruits of wrong."
 her usual preoccupied air. There were a
eatly.
XIV. The Knitting Done
on be out of the way of harming you, and
s this lasted?'
uty. On the opposite side of the courtya
 patriots; but, was now law for everybod
"I am sure of it. Charles Darnay, myster
he tenth year of my captivity. Hope has 
ost himself, or how he recovered himself
in that spot, and the figure that stood 
I am no more annoyed when I think of the
 Spies!" with many compliments too numer
er this.       Kiss our child for me."
tell him, 'Defarge, I was brought up amo
The clocks are on the stroke of three, a
 She cared nothing for you."
nt in originality) rapped out theirs. Me
r in my arms; it stood between the littl
 have no business," said Mr. Carton.
nature were become. The maidenly bosom b
e them to his Majesty's Chief Secretary 
suit originally?"
l?"
terial objects as guineas, shillings, an
ars; and she remembered it long afterwar
otherwise restored, and faithful to all 
o-morrow! Now, a judicious selection fro
the dreadful carts were rolling through 
 that fanned Saint Antoine and his devou
e, had this work always ready for it now
 the rule."
e by my name. I answered. The carriage w
 house, where several callings purported
was the same expression in all quarters 
you are a woman of business."
ady so thrown together;--with the except
things out of Paris at this present time
with sensual eyes, loose tongues, and lo
seize that arm, lift it, and strike unde
hatever his number might be.
e there was a blazing fire. A kettle ste
 you conceited female," said Mr. Crunche
usiness here," returned Madame Defarge, 
ance and Jacques Three of the Revolution
mpassion.
inged with grey.
ing almost to the minute when I had firs
 a bright flush. "And you are the better
ith The Vengeance. There could not be fe
g of the window, and said, with a cool, 
 which he had, in some old day, wound of
, that he was soon the inspecting physic
greeable, who takes more pains to be agr
ined, the last letter was found to be G.
 he was a Tutor. He read with young men 
te, still looking at the ceiling of the 
-burning candle, and found them safe, an
fy my respect for your sister than by fi
g touch.
re the light of day had never shone, pas
ferent man from the prisoner, who had wa
 to the same spot!"
they, grimly; and never moved.
I had nothing more important to remember
city. Look at it. You see--Sydney Carton
d the Foundation, the trademark owner, a
 Early as it was, on the windy March mor
act was to put out my hand to relieve he
 and want, were the lords in waiting on 
 a man who resembles you? There is nothi
d judgment expressly brought to bear upo
Lucie shuddered as he threw two more bil
under this agreement, disclaim all liabi
o had habitually walked in her girlhood,
And still Madame Defarge, pursuing her w
the present hour, a picking up their gui
d all visible things with a brooding loo
on! But how?"
e going out, a wandering fancy wandered 
, will he not come to deliver me? No ans
in the dusk of the ninth evening.
"Yes. Except that I remember them both t
Updated editions will replace the previo
 have produced this horror. Crush humani
 there was nothing to shock her in the m
ed the work from.  If you received the w
tand with the family. If you please, com
g, and with a heart always growing heavi
able peculiarity was, that it was the fa
ved her other days. I have observed her 
ight have remained undiscovered. That Pr
and the day of the month, set him thinki
se?"
letter?" asked Madame Defarge, with a lo
e poor young lady, by laying a brawny ha
s own, as though it were growing luminou
"'He is not here,' I said, supporting th
o," the guard mused, "for I made the sam
led into the coach, shut the door, and p
ng up their guineas where a honest trade
nd of the scarf into her mouth, and was 
ucie, seen through your marriage, than i
"Your fishing-rod gets rayther rusty; do
ry, they had been silent, and they remai
"No children."
that remained between him and his chatea
apped her hands.
 sense of hearing as they came down, unt
 his remarkable face, and the impetuous 
re as long as my life lasts."
"It is the law," remarked the ancient cl
orting her, and she feels the better for
arm in an official manner.
Doctor, tremulously, "it is such an old 
et behind the counter.
s raging in Saint Antoine afar off, as t
 hands were joined as the Doctor spoke:
 die.
torm in France with a dreadful sea risin
on the general staircase--left its own h
e I can hold you."
ot, staid but cheerful, a wonderful plac
cried the same scowling red-cap. "As if 
ed blindly at the night. Dead darkness l
ch cases, the time was long, while it fl
east had this much soothing influence, t
ssing on my love. We shall meet again, w
Pross, and remembering what he had seen 
 aspect that would be gratefully acknowl
r hand to Mr. Lorry as he stooped over t
The Foundation is committed to complying
mething light, afar off, and scarcely au
?"
out, striking and tearing at their own f
to get the bonnet and other things that 
 to be sent back soon? I hope so. He is 
ld of the tocsin, and, abolishing the la
he night, and might, but for a chance, h
and that as I am an orphan and have no f
in the street. The accident had happened
 and drank what they gave him to eat and
The door slowly opened inward under his 
ing from home, to beg to speak to you."
d so free from any mercenary taint, he h
ppily, however, there was sleep in Beauv
 That somebody was assassinated by someb
rquis was no impeachment of his high bre
 They had stopped when the coach stopped
dentally broke some common thing, and ha
nd; Miss Pross knew full well that Madam
kable that Doctor Manette, unquestionabl
e-blinds closed, so that the dark night 
cook's dress, and got across the borders
r's knee, seem days of very long ago?"
rity; the highwayman in the dark was a C
sh, formed into lines the width of the p
n arm drawn through the leathern strap, 
His eyes were so often turned towards it
's not so long since you were pretty far
hat Cly was so ferreted up and down, tha
fter dinner does a digger in the red coa
s, and came to the corners of vile stree
g your admirers, the nature of your call
looked troubled, and listened attentivel
'll answer you. I am sorry because I bel
ndstone: a roughly mounted thing which a
ister can be discovered.'
r one thousand seven hundred and ninety-
e Hotel de Ville, a prisoner. I have sai
came of you, when I rendered it.--Mind! 
 rode forward again when all the town wa
ble dog."
our times in a year. It would satisfy me
Mr. Lorry knew Miss Pross to be very jea
 "I'll do that for you."
as he took a slip of paper to write on. 
 his pockets, whose whole attention, whe
r the Citizeness Defarge!"
oor of the house. It was not opened imme
in PG search facility:
and through last night. And here you see
r had become oblivious of the existence 
curious look at Darnay: an intent look, 
g this fictitious alarm, darting in agai
"Why am I confined alone?"
Mr. Jarvis Lorry--sitting opposite the b
 been warned to do), and I walked on, th
omply, and I entered it in silence. They
violate in safe custody. That, immediate
ants."
He would not have stopped then, for anyt
ezed it and wrung it, and had seldom gra
lue-mould upon him. Then only was he per
ved in habits, or in looks, or in manner
"It is hard for me to speak of her at an
superlative degree of comparison only.
ually), the populace set up a shout of a
three hundred thousand men, summoned to 
He asked another man. "Who is it?"
 sight of.
ke the wittles and drink here, by your f
ly on this account, and partly to avoid 
  A Sight      Chapter III    A Disappoi
hile to apostrophise me, or the air, abo
?"
 Mr. Cruncher, with a most alarming tend
 into as bad luck as ever a poor devil o
e a man already pretty well off, and a r
"Perhaps. According to its nature. You c
tion, that inflicted a punishment of whi
r greatest desire was, to help that sist
ll of them, while it was secret, was aut
And the old answer:
h chamber in a well of houses, he threw 
e years ago, and got out of the mail in 
ess of physical weakness, though confine
t, who had balances at Tellson's.
 of Monsieur the Marquis. It was like a 
t hair of their dumpling heads.
ontemptuous eyes passed over her, and ov
f low caste, rather than in the disappea
dark part of my life would have cast its
 from the pilotage of timid women (mostl
ish you to know that you inspired it."
"An urgent case in the Rue St. Honore, h
ervant; going thus into the Doctor's roo
of grief. "Now that you have come, I thi
"And I am, in plain reality. The truth i
, looking at the fire.
details of the business, and that I must
ood upon him, as a sign that I do it.'
im, and led the way. Both the women foll
"'Marquis,' said the boy, turned to him 
ed with mist and vapour, Mr. Lorry's tho
rd multitude at the moment prevented my 
tool, entered on his reversionary intere
worst populace of a city, never without 
imself to sleep.
such as the world will do well never to 
"I don't hear it."
d asked if he had ever seen the man befo
e were many like him.
on him more and more, "I state the case,
--distinctly in his hearing as ever spok
ere is nothing more to do," said he, gla
quarters and great gathering-place of Mo
he people who love her, bear to see her 
ge, rather pleading with his wife to ind
hought had died out of me. Since I knew 
iding him, making grimaces at him, and i
ere done with some very poor instrument,
 But, from the hour when she had taken t
you to know with what a sudden mastery y
d, if ever you were brave and serviceabl
that he caused himself to be represented
 and another. Roar and roar.
don with my dear daughter here. She had 
if madame my wife undertook to keep the 
f about, that he might appear, before th
was, and what the immunities of the Nobl
 of imprisoned sleep, becomes manifest i
with that decoration, being of a surface
, Doctor Manette. And when Jarvis Lorry 
t done, with many added sentences of gra
as ready to go."
cutler's knives and axes were sharp and 
very hour. Can such things last? Bah! I 
uncher--though it seemed on his own sepa
re that I shall bear witness to your bei
great force in that. Why stop?"
ere afraid of being found out in somethi
out doubt it is safe, for no one beyond 
 his heavy riding glove, across the face
 fortunate hares who could find a living
ll known to himself as it could be to an
e people from the market did it. Let the
ife--we, ours--and we have held no corre
a place beyond the reach of this man, an
n and Paris, sir. A vast deal of travell
 than useless now to make any inquiries,
il he made a flight from the troubles, i
e Bar. Alas! Temple Bar was hundreds of 
erently shaded eyes, a bridge of light a
ate preserves of loaves and fishes, that
as a good batch. Figure this to yourself
ecounted faithfully. Will you wait for u
to add your death to the bitterness of m
"
y-General) was prepared to hear some dis
 then sat down by the side of the bed. T
cious. But, an affectionate glance at hi
"All sorts of people have been proposed 
n the basement of the fountain, and was 
said, "Let him be; let him be! He will b
ly walked downstairs.
power for good, with you, at all?"
 was Monsieur Defarge: the other a mende
ame much more remarkable. My Lord inquir
 along the streets without being stopped
their fingers. Others, men and women, di
t of women's society, nor understanding 
"Hah! Evremonde has an assignation elsew
"His goods," said Mr. Cruncher, after tu
"When?"
ry, who had never seen the better side o
 admit it, "that, after all our sympathy
, with my husband's name, may be placed 
een much in his life.
 me?" asked Miss Pross.
age. All his fellows stooped to look und
other, laid under similar injunctions, o
they could bear no more, they dropped of
. He had opened, not only the glass wind
 (as I call him) having crossed swords w
exed him, he had got the better of it. H
"That night, I tell him, when the paper 
"I come direct."
 to know that it teems with interest; li
hose dear to her, are far dearer to me t
ly put to death on vague suspicion and b
spered in his ear, and that she seemed t
ged between us, and I will detain you no
The wood-sawyer, who was a little man wi
uring into the courtyard.
helm me with embraces, or carry me in tr
t as a matter of business--business that
id the Marquis, felicitously sensible th
ou speak faintly."
this!"
l I can to make what poor amends I can. 
y sorry to leave you both, and to leave 
impressive as we originate them, I think
shouting coming along, which filled her 
k horsehair, and loaded with heavy dark 
 hand again, and looked closely at it. "
rest dear, that your agony is over, and 
ed in the one line, 'Recalled to Life;' 
ing man, and a man of some distinction: 
 ways; of the women, some wore knives, s
 "O me, O me! All is lost!" cried she, w
"You are a philosopher, you there," said
ittle while, he sat down at the table, a
r of the French language who was convers
 suitable one, high up in a removed by-s
y, and a rising mist from the Seine, den
"'She heard me, and ran in. I told her n
 secret, a woman's sympathy. Her hope ha
des a messenger?"
 road, the sun going to bed, the carriag
Madame Defarge's dark eyes followed her 
od, Mr. Carton, if it would make you hap
tting down into the road--assisted from 
r a great muffler for the chin and throa
t about to wrench it open, he was so fri
 of the prisoner? Yes. Ever pay him? No.
r?" asked his son, briskly.
f observers of the wretched millions in 
' said one.
 train of thought and remembrance that w
he President declared him free.
I know this must always be a sore subjec
the day among the village population. So
e of the mail. All three were wrapped to
to be adjusting some instrument like a g
ur written explanation.  The person or e
he stone face for which it had waited th
ed to attend the citizeness. The citizen
urch; the beautiful bride, Mr. Lorry, an
"Nothing at all, Joe."
ere lying open on a desk, and an officer
up the steps, and the other flambeau hel
ared for victory or death against the wo
 to ask me. But I think--I know--he does
ere, thank God; but I have been so put o
"Truly yes, madame."
oftly. The staircase was short, and they
upon her arm; and her hair drooping over
keness passed away, like a breath along 
rchased every evening, in small quantiti
st as perfectly as Madame Defarge unders
 until the night was far advanced. She n
they looked at one another with one mean
 they will ever trouble you, Madame Defa
 drinking of healths, shaking of hands, 
had laid it down to pick her teeth with 
n, and show the door-keeper this note fo
With a menacing look at the turnkey he c
 his place, with half-shut eyes, the lit
or capacity of sacrifice in it, I would 
ese people knew their turn for examinati
ttled on Saint Antoine, which a momentar
ed person, the shadows of the night did 
 courtyard here, even to the taking of y
a wound from a sharp point.
 presentiment that if no other innocent 
me their daily retainer, and had his bed
 in their triumphs and defeats, through 
ay, on many subjects, and with unusual v
. Lorry it disclosed some shadowy indica
or this slight mistake) was quite a seri
 name is John Solomon, or Solomon John?"
bout Donations to the Project Gutenberg 
et.
"Be under no apprehension, Miss Manette,
"
o Death's dominion.
ed--not shown--yet always ready."
 his hand."
 his customary state of mind, Mr. Lorry 
 business, did not change his unconsciou
 "Come in, come in!"
uld desire. But--really, you know, Mr. S
ght us all. She has gone out on some hou
mes pensive, sometimes amused and laughi
t," muttered Carton.
I    A Disappointment      Chapter IV   
he clouds were a sum.
His haggard eyes turned to Defarge as if
e next to try Mr. Carton (name of my lea
portant to the human race than any commu
"And before the tumbrils arrive. Be sure
year of my captivity, as I saw them all 
this man's head under the axe, and, as h
endants on the chocolate and hold his hi
 at the two, less and less attentively, 
ncher! Think-not of me, but of the lives
erry.
"But he has been--been found. He is aliv
all round, going on in the streets. Now,
e whole Court! Who made the Old Bailey a
"To whom do I address it?"
 has no curiosity or care for the scene 
, they came all at once in sight of thre
 gate clash again, and all was quiet.
he Project Gutenberg-tm collection.  Des
the speaking on less easy.
t dwelling-place in the distracted state
a good citizen at Paris. Whatever might 
 were silent for ever. I have had unform
 for me."
ear space about him as the people drew o
eard in their stead, and would die away 
"The child also," observed Jacques Three
hat it is for?"
ge spoke to her husband:
f his luxury was; he has paid the price.
us council with The Vengeance and Jacque
nd, rather than on the industry of the o
f honourable ambition, self-denial, and 
y wife," said Defarge, in a deprecatory 
y paid for her wine. As she did so, Solo
re a little--listening perhaps. Then, th
th great perseverance and untiring indus
d a good Republican; something new in th
 a widow and her child an orphan, there 
Doctor Manette was next questioned. His 
permost and half suffocated, in a load o
If I should prowl about the streets a lo
me was Cruncher, and on the youthful occ
f, was you called at that time?"
Jerry, with his head becoming more and m
"Touch then!"
wine had stood, a moment before; but the
, Miss Manette, of my ever resuming this
All this was seen in a moment, as the vi
an Englishwoman."
 town without removing their furniture t
Dig--dig--dig--until an impatient moveme
he miserable wretch in a deadly embrace-
hind the curtain at the head of the bed 
d the real message returned, would all b
d show of, "You are a lean old one, too,
 you to believe that he has a heart he v
t a second time, and, in this matter, as
eeches, looking on at the struggle for t
tion from the depths of his soul, it was
h his conscience regarded the crumbling 
l come.'"
"Nor written?"
f a man has invariably gone one way--Cha
 that his being there had any connection
d of the night, circling hand in hand ro
 punishment, because they were her natur
pretty often at ale-houses by the way to
with whom I had the pleasure of chatting
arefully tried the pulse and the heart. 
h the greatest satisfaction.
!--much sympathy and anger in Saint Anto
 revulsion had even travelled that lengt
wait near. Lose no time!"
ped fears, beforehand.
 shall yet stand your friend, if you des
e lion in the same manner, and was not d
arried one slung over his shoulder. His 
n her bosom, was a loaded pistol. Lying 
nd, the prisoner walked faster and faste
e remonstrated.
 affairs, like the affairs of many other
 but shook his head in a dubious and mor
s, and though he even put the old man's 
ctly from any of the following which you
 a state of the greatest wonder.
publican Brutus of Antiquity, attended b
t heap of dolls, and were set upon them 
distress, to show her, in secret, a woma
ing and breadless. Then, the miserable b
hat he rendered suit and service to Stry
 a guilty consciousness that they knew n
long shadows are on the hollow ridge on 
rward asleep, who in the popular high-sh
to her. From these decayed sons and daug
His way taking him past Tellson's, and h
ts. But it is the obstinate custom of su
t--it was a plain case, and had not a we
ft footpath in a garden where a neglecte
Charles Darnay roused himself, and gave 
t appear prominently whenever any copy o
y night, and looking seaward: particular
dame Defarge. By strange stern ways, and
ing to do of all. You must instantly be 
xceedingly; so the dinner was very pleas
protected it to the courtyard of the hou
lly.
 to "catch" him, and on the diamond-cut-
ng out.
Whatever might befall now, he must on to
 beyond this, he dreaded nothing distinc
"Have you finished your repast, friend?"
XXIII. Fire Rises
ld) the trouble of each particular case,
 of time; if his wife had implored the k
 either with the requirements of paragra
, driven from it by its distractions, op
"No. I am accidentally possessed of a po
n to any one, or whether he had been all
 has been nurtured, that it can have few
nine nose, the line of which was as deli
d credit card donations. To donate, plea
!
 quicker and fiercer among every little 
 way along the pavement, to the jostleme
n for its foundations could--I have imag
isen, and he said that, so far as he cou
oor stood ajar all night.
th an anxious look at his friend. "Now, 
when he went to bed tired out, in a litt
ntil after the moon rose at midnight.
one should be wisited on my earnest wish
he poorer prisoners. Partly on this acco
 of a Storm
-than usual?"
ean pair of heels very early in the scuf
h an apprehension weighs on the sufferer
described, my dear friend, was not quite
at Monsieur Gabelle's door. "Help, Gabel
ng at his father's side, carried every m
d swell of voices added to them. "He mad
he Doctor, in a subdued tone, "some ment
lled to Life;' which may mean anything. 
 prison. They whisper at the fountain, t
in the dusk, with his elbows on his knee
on taken, my sister! Old Foulon taken, m
other?'
There was a small, heavily-grated, ungla
Miss Pross, "that I should ever want to 
.
"Is it being a good wife to oppose your 
ll to be seen on the ceiling, in the coo
ations. They again joined hands.
een drinking."
non, muskets, fire and smoke. One drawbr
Here again: Mr. Lorry's inquiries into M
quarters; you suppose mincing bread-and-
Bring your chair here, and speak on."
er, with signs of angry apprehension.
 going to so unjustly, shall I have some
ime, it was vile indeed to unaccustomed 
nore, cries are raised against him. If t
ad was as impracticable as if he had bee
estive apparatus: if the bony fingers ha
an; that was insufficient punishment, be
 unison, and between whom and you there 
right in your lifetime. Gentleman of the
welop your talents. Be careful to dewelo
uld soon have driven the House out of it
tall man, and he recognises me. Ah, but 
man stopped in passing, to embrace him, 
es, and were putting candles in every du
o let in a little more light here. You c
he did not doubt would be found among th
 been set down at their respective roads
und its hilt was a frill of paper, on wh
s grave a face as if it had not been tru
ether it is good for Doctor Manette to h
e, he was startled by the shining of the
op, in every dead-dog preparation that w
al way; "no matter, no matter."
"It was with the greatest difficulty tha
re them. That, his position and attitude
is old prison. She hurries to him, and t
f the Republic. She will be full of symp
 his first confusion and astonishment, t
first encountered, "Well, I am sure, Bol
"Oh dear me, sir?" repeated Stryver, dra
ooked in his prison of the Abbaye--in fa
by turns looking from him to them, and f
ermission and even with his aid, his bro
sease that had brought him to these gloo
ned, were all red with it. Some of the h
"
self."
ut repeated them and went on.
."
 on beds of roses; if he had had any suc
he way of the idle and curious, and the 
ll well assured he is, should never touc
e of the great God! My husband, the fore
sion! Good day, one and all!"
place, even in the year one thousand sev
save the woman and myself, one or other 
ns; others devoted themselves to the sod
n and have no friend who could go with m
me, till I couldn't see it."
rent of talkers past Mr. Lorry's desk. H
 the instant he became a cannonier--Defa
cumbent on him to speak a word or two of
round Mr. Charles Darnay--just released-
t when he did find spoken words for it, 
e; that, one of the body so sitting in j
oked at her husband. Defarge, who had be
nd looking at her, collected his face in
d him of his work, and he bent over it a
This eBook is for the use of anyone anyw
y, yet not be far from the truth."
This mode of address was now prescribed 
of mind, and great exertion of body, and
d it as a curiosity. The Doctor knew, th
hat wouldn't do for you, Jerry! I say, J
The show being over, the flutter in the 
yver arrears were handsomely fetched up;
ted when he talked with her, and had loo
ng, while it flamed by so fast. A revolu
sidence,' said the first, 'and not being
e door. Miss Pross, on the instinct of t
Mr. Jarvis Lorry's knowledge, thoughts, 
ce of paper in the next pause, the couns
ing open a door of idiotic obstinacy wit
-in-the-Fields. His unpopularity with th
 of court lay in that direction, and Jer
 prisoner. Was he one of those two passe
 lived, was not to be found in London. T
"A craven who abandoned his post," said 
 bad equipages, and bad horses, he would
"How do I know!"
 much national boasting. Daring burglari
n, he slipped away to his bench.
and the night was quite still again, he 
down on the ground to sleep or smoke, wh
 animals are endued with Reason; and the
"But may not--mind! I ask for informatio
ootstool, chattered in the tongues of th
all his poor blindnesses and errors, end
he inundation started on them and swept 
e looks into his face and thanks him.
ngs she had turned over on her face on t
nes of black, alternating with their bro
ther livid as he turned them over.
eply of Monsieur Defarge.
'ye mind me? And if you've got holsters 
 if I beg you not to ask it?"
"What o'clock do you make it, Joe?"
heir several callings, all lying horribl
the observation of Tellson's, in the fur
oughout; and between the cups and saucer
--and bent over his work again.
its that I scorn but yield to, will rend
s nature from myself, quickening nothing
e drawn to an end, sir?" said Carton, tu
t will happen when it does come," answer
ry B. Newby      Chief Executive and Dir
t, and ruminated a little longer, he tur
re close to one another, held his honour
-it was a large churchyard that they wer
were beyond the winking lamps, and the m
lofty buildings, as perhaps the quiet ti
n, came quickest. Again: Tellson's was a
r all works posted with the permission o
"One word," the Doctor entreated. "Will 
ank the toast, Carton flung his glass ov
y uncertain for some few moments whether
f experience--_in_ a Bank," said Stryver
and was at the prisoner's face; "'I shou
talk in lieu of drink, with greedy looks
side the door; all those within the wine
ryver, of the King's Bench Bar, far on h
hat he, the Doctor, had then so strongly
 herself. If she had been laid low in th
e ancient clerk. "Speak well of the law.
 Mr. Lorry had previously explained to h
not?"
kest messenger I know, and will get to T
hut. Your bank-notes had a musty odour, 
"I am cool now," said Monsieur the Marqu
ave supposed sick fish went up to be dip
Sydney Carton drank the punch at a great
th, Mr. Cruncher sat watching the two st
again; but, she did go in, and even went
ther, between Hilary Term and Michaelmas
ng a similar short pause at each name. T
 it."
reading a journal aloud, and of the othe
d regarding time and place; but I am so 
The question was addressed to the wood-s
 really loved--the direct responsibility
 earth hanging about his face and hair, 
 the stairs, and shook the curtains of t
ersed many steps of the long main stairc
 wrote in the same strain; but, he told 
at most doors and windows. Yet, no one h
h, and the single drawbridge, and the ma
"Two to-night, I think. I have been dini
ee followed decree with that fierce prec
re so many, they increase so fast, there
nour, had communicated itself to the pri
ting for Lightning, always do.
t obtained by thrift in trifles, by deli
 shining of the sun into the room where 
 great deal, that! Many are under the di
 see him, high up, behind the bars of a 
ere; I know of most people who are here.
wers of self-deceit, the interest was, a
"Do you seek any promise from me?"
    Chapter XVIII  Nine Days      Chapte
roke with that sweep of water, and there
"Then why not change it?"
ious points of the road between the Conc
m to pieces and strew him over the stree
to dawn, and he softly detached himself 
on my lips--a pity to live no better lif
ulate successfully.
, I am sensible I may be indebted to you
usband weekly, and brought sweet message
me lighter document; the jackal, with kn
ous footsteps to force their way into an
erwise, the place will be quickly forgot
 vain, in passing on to the door.
steeling the heart. Such grace as was vi
ugh of witnesses to-day and to-night; wh
e; insisted on pouring into the burial-g
"It would seem like flight, my darling. 
age, 'Recalled to Life,' again," muttere
gh condemned to death he will not be exe
Hold the light higher, you!"
from his own wife a repetition of her la
ot to mention his having an ill-omened l
The marriage-day was shining brightly, a
the cathedral some few minutes before he
ck her in the manner of his reference. H
e Fairy a service. All was subdued and q
mself on his back on a sofa on one side 
"Don't call me Solomon. Do you want to b
triking of a light and the lighting of h
re the Cross was denied.
a pleasant little vista of street that h
neasy rushes of wind went through the ha
to the plains beyond the range of red an
k at her, with her pretty pale face and 
 solemn words, which had been read at hi
Mr. Cruncher, in an access of loyalty, g
Nor was this the end of the day's bad wo
"Does it mean a captive, or a place of c
 in the French language, which caused th
is misgivings were not so dark as, imagi
 No direct answer could have been half s
hrough the head and rode away; the mail 
" after which the mail was robbed in pea
 and unshaken. I try it with these detai
This favoured the desperate resolution C
g me to sound you; good night!"
e over him; but, I could see that he was
oo much the way of Monseigneur under his
he Doctor, and Mr. Lorry, Charles Darnay
Doctor Manette received him kindly, and 
t, defiance, stubbornness, submission, l
ntenced by the millions, and that units 
wn to the passenger (and it was not a li
directions. As if the Gorgon's head had 
orrow and the day after. Eager and promi
"What did you say?"
 affirmative: seizing the occasion to ad
 THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AG
 savage details being spared--by just so
, already fast shouldering his way to a 
d been, for many years, built up and for
"Look at me!" said Stryver, squaring him
 guard five hundred strong, in cavalry a
ore spectacles to read with, glanced ove
t in the training of the young gentlemen
g sun. There was a ridge of ploughed lan
f it were in his mind. It seemed to be; 
encloses its own secret; that every beat
"We have seen nothing else," returned Th
 prediction.
turn the key." Monsieur Defarge whispere
; all totally unfit for their several ca
 were never fortunate enough to gain, to
Was he not an emigrant then? What did he
The door closed, and Carton was left alo
of little means, which is one of its mos
f aside, the embroidery in the corner ca
The last of the three now said his say, 
fective work may elect to provide a repl
cher looked at him then or afterwards, s
efore him, as the like of himself had dr
ockings, and all his poor tatters of clo
ess. "For the honour of the family, I co
from her, that not until long afterwards
thing to her, that his wife was to be ma
f the finest breeding, which was at that
"
s all. We must hold up our heads and fig
t."
"No, Jerry, no!" said the messenger, har
Manette, Lucie Manette, his daughter, Mr
re-most chairs, stands The Vengeance, lo
ed herself before the door of the chambe
ess to electronic works by freely sharin
som in the garret of Saint Antoine, she 
rity under conditions more certain than 
is breast. In the moonlight which is alw
flutter in the air became quite a little
Is that the sort of fellow? Let us look 
 his head was soon upon a pike, with gra
r. Does his daughter know of the relapse
lating the walls, an hour or more ago. Y
 practical kind, she had ravaged Soho an
se knew now. He could not but admit to h
"_I_ think?" returned madame, in a high 
ve been--nay, than it ever was--without 
 it brought the irrepressible tears into
nging, and bethinking itself that Monsie
e carved or branded into her forehead. S
e stopped, and stared at the roof and ro
face to be not the face of a true friend
rison he had found a self-appointed Trib
r's household pointed to that time as a 
d?"
tand of what you have so impressively sa
p, of my pretty young mother (and I so o
 hot temperament, for, although it was a
formation:      Dr. Gregory B. Newby    
"
es she recoiled and cried out, for she s
e artless boy.
hat a disordered state you are in! The l
 these refinements by the prison manners
morning unto Saturday night.
e blackened remains of burnt houses, and
hat I do it.'
n steps to have the light of the lamp th
oject Gutenberg:
 Tellson's knows this and says this--Tel
 with all the speed they could make. Her
esult in idle despair, it would but have
e sure! What am I thinking of!"
en I gave it her. Not that she showed sh
"You swear not to betray me?" said the t
ed a trade, in spite of his favourite de
what lay in it to keep him from pounding
n that; Monsieur Manette is, for all rea
"You should have said, short as a dwarf,
f tolerated smuggler who drove a contrab
r of the chamber which Lucie had occupie
o there the day before.
uld not bear her light. I have looked at
 visitor with whom I well know you have 
iew--it is hardly necessary to say I cou
"--respecting the small property of my p
iumph--I hope, for her sake, Destiny wil
at she made to the prisoners; you are re
"It's hard in the law to spile a man, I 
r taking his from his feasting wife, and
er turned my love away from!" cried Miss
se, a black muffler was drawn tightly ov
t the same moment, the beg of the great 
ke, Mr. Lorry felt giddily uncertain for
 and still I would--"
ns; because I am a mere dull man of busi
each other; the man with all the outward
 her knitting when the elderly gentleman
ty of the people, in that I have acted a
 through the hall, among the old spears 
Darkness closed around, and then came th
 long concealed. It would be worse than 
"_John_," thought madame, checking off h
ad been idle a long time, and had just p
s whether they should foam, rage, roar, 
.
bracing, and shouting, all by turns and 
to you. I have by no means forgotten it,
man's life here is worth purchase. Any o
s of his mind, in the scared blank wonde
the North Tower they found these upon my
p being of the thoroughly practical kind
oor dear?"
y?" asked the gentleman of that name.
ut is the property? It is scarcely worth
late, have proved more important to the 
 for the time. A broad ray of light fell
within a minute or so, he was stretched 
withered father: I swear on my knees, on
ent, in some adjacent room, until, havin
of his detachment from the poor young la
he prison of La Force, where she had sto
onging to them from being trampled under
tance. Mr. Darnay, good night, God bless
se to reclaim her father? Yes!"
 looked up in his face, imploring him to
tives, and she softly laid the patient o
ears.
t Doctor." Then she raised her voice and
e knitting-women, never faltering or pau
nt," said Defarge, in his ear; "you make
electronically, the person or entity pro
een an exceedingly uncomfortable busines
o the Common Executioner: who, in pursua
ace; and every day on leaving it, she ki
r! My fellow-citizen here would have it 
, on secret business of which he could g
ion that he thought the best, on the Doc
"Buried how long?"
might ever be as true to him as her love
 Saint Antoine's bosom but a few old cro
oom, where he was speaking with Charles 
ound myself living in London with my dea
e bottle of port before him, and his ful
nd spend it as you will. The horses ther
theless, you shall not get the better of
France, less favoured on the whole as to
t he might have been suspected (perhaps 
he thing that was to be, went on to shap
said Carton, turning to him.
nd, for emphasis, "that although it is a
e, citizen?"
by trade?" said Mr. Lorry, looking stead
Yes. Like the mariner in the old story, 
"Surely, surely."
 wife?"
ucifer," said Miss Pross, in her breathi
on, and carried it, as to the public int
e. The upshot of which, was, to smash th
"He has always kept it by him," said Mr.
brighter genius proposed instead, its be
 gallantry, leaning his elbow on Madame 
h of light from the lamps, and the hedge
ur affably passed through his rooms to t
tenberg-tm License (available with this 
e reg'lar diggin', and make amends for w
the Doctor, recovering firmness, "I shou
ing too many for _me_!" said Mr. Crunche
of the shield and trident, rolled with e
high--and is left hanging, poisoning the
uld love you, you shall tell me on your 
he faces was altered. A rumour just live
awaiting his dinner as he had awaited hi
ne. See here again! Loo, loo, loo; Loo, 
 prayers may be? Name the price that you
ng with you, Monsieur Defarge, recalls t
of Monseigneur. Such homes had these var
believe, with all my soul, that we shall
and which somebody else, yet I'm none th
m. The lion took it with care and cautio
and even speaks of himself with a kind o
ing up of London and Westminster. Even t
pass out at that door, tell me it is mad
 a removed by-street where the closed bl
day's dinner (not much to carry) lying i
e matter in hand became so knotty, that 
ike sheep; the wheels turned so suddenly
ike the life out of him, that he turned 
801) 596-1887, email business@pglaf.org.
rved and mechanical way Defarge spoke, M
clared in danger, changed into wild beas
ation in the court."
n his arms on the passage across that ve
lea and proof, for his own safety, so th
e wife of Evremonde; where is she?"
every one!" The tocsin rang impatiently,
ey may be stored, may contain "Defects,"
im, without surprise. The hour had measu
s frock, and his loose stockings, and al
t he might not have made this journey, i
t the prisoner must remain in custody, b
self; but do you know how easy it has gr
ak my heart by-and-bye; but I will do my
on cautiously to come together in the co
 from me?"
ith that completeness that if the coach-
they stopped for the third time. There w
r of public domain and licensed works th
e and go as a privileged person here; th
"Yes, yes: better as it is."
who quietly nodded and sat down again.
The guard soon replaced his blunderbuss 
e time of the opening of the door, who c
over them all, as if they had been mere 
 mysterious penalty of "letting them kno
 by-and-bye.
 his honoured parent, pretty well define
 ready."
n 3 below.
queer condition!" said Mr. Cruncher, mor
 conference for the night?"
the landscape, dead darkness added its o
"She is an Angel!" said The Vengeance, a
, and leading me out into the freedom be
lf and all the world. For which reason, 
 made illustrious there by the light of 
t a few moments before, on the fragments
y intent upon him--"that when I was left
ouch, where her child and Miss Pross wep
lf always before him, as a silent protes
cious creatures," said Miss Pross, wildl
and down together, walking up and down t
who I will unreservedly admit, at this d
e was stopped at the barrier, and sent t
t lay before them.
Professor Michael S. Hart is the origina
Mr. Lorry took it in his hand.
topped at a solitary house, We all three
t nook remained undisclosed, Defarge lai
"Yes. And if you were shown a flock of b
could be) than single, and of the many t
tive. It had not lasted a minute, when h
Looked out upon a throng of men and wome
re and convenience.
ow, stringing up long rows of miscellane
he mill; or captivity and Death in the d
ginning. It seems to be one of the kind 
journey in France alone, when he went to
ing a loyal jury (as he knew they were),
ent streets, and along the river's bank,
ddy wine-lees--BLOOD.
 and as it was necessary to watch its in
of a certainty; and they are both here f
, they turned back on the questioner whe
d most other men, Darnay made the best o
 But, Mr. Darnay, oblivion is not so eas
ordial thanks."
 squalor and misery through which they w
itude.
eries that was barred between him and En
id I say we could depend upon no better 
ll curious to see," thought Mr. Lorry, i
required them as the weak, to trust to h
orld you should belong to--this, or some
The secret was well kept, and Lucie was 
"It is so, Jacques," Monsieur Defarge re
l the other windows of a high melancholy
e he would be stood, how he would be tou
and that we have before us."
es rushed in, at sight of which he fell 
ce, he falls. They laugh and pick him up
ing." This time, a pair of haggard eyes 
nce a little nearer to the door, and the
ngland at the risk of being ducked to de
alf." With such scraps tossing and rolli
ble even to say how she had become famil
nswered:
st in both her arms, and held her tight.
the fear go with it? In short, is it not
oked from the coachman to the guard, and
lready, with the speed of lightning, got
 serve as a gloomy reminder to Defarge, 
ter, and showed what they wanted.
 in a blue cap. All adust and athirst, t
the last, much the easiest to bestow, O 
rison. Let me but lift my finger--!" She
e defendant threw up his brief, and the 
nd where is that emigrant?
ot marked for long life. She was in grea
ered about. The red cap and tri-colour c
of farewell and kindness, but the partin
 dropping blood, and what with dropping 
, and could not live another day. Until 
mer the nails into the scaffold.
otism? None whatever.
.
ock became the central point of interest
er of State, or the richest merchant in 
IV. Congratulatory
terwards turned to account in the traini
pensable cap, he represented a man with 
s with his hands, and swooned away in th
 gentleman from Tellson's.
t there might be danger for others, if o
both, against you. I will do nothing for
"Miss Manette, then!"
leader, a popular street character of th
"Meanwhile," said the Marquis, "I will p
in.
It was not a reckless manner, the manner
th such eccentricities of damp headgear 
y, as he looked among his papers.
her and his son went home to tea.
o dancing, and the courtyard overflowed 
ature's remedy for all things, and why n
nd the village, with his day's dinner (n
 reduced to pieces convenient for the pu
"Did they alight on the road in the cour
nglish one."
It had taken a deal of extra wet-towelli
uis indicates me with his finger, standi
es to the saint's mercies. The lamps acr
rose in her head, for the great brotherh
ttle household, Miss Pross took charge o
 tops of the towers vanished like ice be
htmare, they had helped the healer, and 
gateway where he had paused in the dark 
nd for sacrifices and self-immolations o
un.
were studying his wife at her knitting w
y sacrifice for you and for those dear t
as he arrived in Paris he would present 
nd read it. These were its contents:
of consent. In short, I should make that
!" said Miss Pross; and Mr. Lorry left o
Darnay left him, and it was an hour late
 expend considerable effort to identify,
t Antoine and Defarge's wine-shop; had r
not met the solicitation requirements, w
"Write exactly as I speak."
e corner before it, had their own way fr
f I am confused? Let us be clear-headed.
ough, in a certain weird way, and her da
 seen him at work?"
If the suddenness of her calamity, and t
orward.
im on, that even to draw his breath or t
rner. The house was damp and decayed, in
("I don't like Jerry's voice, if it is J
rs. How can the women and the children d
ld.
nd it into a glare of brightness. It was
were there, and it was evident that he s
at, they never could endure the notion o
 was an old-fashioned place, moreover, i
th a smile. "It is more to the purpose t
pared to submit myself to a few inconven
h the basket, walked at her side. They b
."
coach start, had known who it was that S
d marks on the billets; and the forehead
pression and neglect of all kinds?"
ggled out of the smoke again, as if it w
r to you, I would do anything. If my car
It was the year of Our Lord one thousand
rds can tell, and thanking God for my gr
 "shuts out the sky."
very agreeable to trace the likeness.
ssing, before Somebody comes to claim hi
brief devotion and tearing them to piece
r bowl of punch?" said Stryver the portl
s with sashes and handkerchiefs. I notic
him in his misery and not augment it, th
 alone; but, she never missed a single d
e that vile and infamous character of ev
Then, as the darkness closed in, the dau
So resistless was the force of the ocean
ng paper money and spending it. Under th
this agreement by keeping this work in t
he high caste, chiselled, and otherwise 
t let me put you in a room at the back h
to me, that these remembrances arise, an
suspicion and black malice, it was so im
ain?"
 upon her husband. Do what he would, beh
"I must say again, nonsense, nonsense! W
ad had eight weary months of imprisoned 
scure corner from which he had never mov
nute, before they all started away among
ng not mentioned if they stayed there, s
Sydney, with the same luck. Even then, I
ll make you think me not quite as shrewd
 solitude and disuse. It was like the la
rum was at rest. The drum's was the only
desk, and work-table, and box of water-c
ng mine is."
"One can depart. Forward, my postilions!
 she turned out the contents of the bowl
"What now? Are you a subject for the mad
ons would be recalled--say, under certai
east of an army to bear Foulon company--
pectacle, that in many windows there are
r handmaid to anticipate intentions of M
 you for half a guinea."
d gentleman, "Barsad? I have an associat
 accordingly.
ight have come down, for anything that c
st positively find the prisoner Guilty, 
 her quiet aid), and the day passed quic
ry nodded his consent. He opened it, and
the prison on the crag. At the gate, a g
"I believe so."
rowd approached; they were bawling and h
of his income was derived from the pilot
Manette, "to the Prosecutor and the Pres
 one day be required of him. What I have
a low voice, "I entreat you, good gentle
se where there is no sense, and a laudab
 It was like a fine mask, suddenly start
e no strange eyes looked on, Charles Dar
, flapping hat, and muddy legs, was rath
, one fellow, to our knowledge, was poni
tunity for consideration, surrounded by 
anner, as he looked at the moon, "It was
been present all day, and you ought to k
so."
 of anyone anywhere at no cost and with 
s low grave voice, and to the abstractio
e them, I think; they are not to be comm
."
parks struck out of the stone, all their
"It is she," observed her husband.
s his express image. People understood t
ounts, but they had had a ray or two for
a delicate and difficult nature, which m
ich filled her with fear. A moment after
nce followed. Defarge and his wife looke
arrative called up the most revengeful p
and softly moved down close to the write
l you. There is no one here to see. You 
 dangerous way, Charles Darnay had set h
 was black again.
 strong rooms, the real express sent aft
xactly alike, that I then first perceive
y prospect yet, of our getting out of th
"Good night!" said the uncle. "I look to
! You hate the fellow."
ung by a rope and pulley; at night, when
loved head that lay on your breast when 
substantial worldly grounds--the only gr
than you expressed for him to-night."
 is, word for word, the same. I describe
not open that great mouth of yours. Bah!
ggle that they had. The two hands of Mad
nd there was the decree; he had been tak
t she showed she was pleased, but I supp
n end of him, whether they liked it or n
Book the Third--the Track of a Storm
ances arise, and pass between us and the
al, there was little or no order of proc
 at his friend.
e mail?"
lips might come together unseen, a few o
oung and free, weep for it, weep for it!
Sometimes, I have sat here of an evening
s his transformations. "If thou be chang
chive Foundation.  Royalty payments     
. You see I am informed of the circumsta
raternity, or Death, declared for victor
with his rusty hands under his head for 
d probably have excluded what little lig
ur lives."
and they will know that I received this,
"I am not to be buried there, prejudged,
use had let them in at the gate, and the
d by some wonderful exercise of agility 
eason of trial, as all the quietly loyal
"You see?" said Carton, looking up, as h
 to hold me in your mind, at some quiet 
ng-whips, and loitering up and down.
"
eless and lost creature, that a famished
tle, and a fresh application to his head
u last night when Lucie came in so unexp
eart as if I had been that child."
or others, if others were compromised by
, wine; and finish there." With that adv
d been there often, during a whole year,
ted by spare living, and the sullen and 
, displayed, performed, viewed, copied o
s little wig, "that seems probable, too.
 Gabelle, and Alexandre Manette.
relieved after reading this note aloud, 
cate and gradual approaches which Mr. Lo
There, his eyes happening to catch the t
rop in the caldron had a tendency to be 
"Ah! But it's not my business. My work i
ica: which, strange to relate, have prov
entleman's. In another place, lay an old
ssisted Lewis, the French King, in his w
d a drummer had flown together by magic;
ard, and the fountain at the chateau dro
ake them. The Republic goes before all. 
. The people had all poured out to the s
ows on his knees and his head in his han
"Who are the few? How do you choose them
It was raised for a moment, and a very f
with Unbelieving Chemists who had an eye
"Come, then!" cried Defarge, in a resoun
"It's enough for you," retorted Mr. Crun
"He happened to be the only one."
f an Old Bailey tactician, in which he f
out me, not a scrap of writing openly re
the day; but, when the streets grew hot,
Temple Bar: where, with the addition of 
"
e, "that many of these miserable beasts 
the taxing authorities, were armed more 
scends, and the seamstress is lifted out
k it in the face, you, in your different
plied the strong woman. "If it was ever 
and left her.
erself down, and praying that the bread-
"Is that all?"
her father was assisted by the people, a
ones and bricks out of their places in w
ublic thoroughfares remained uncleansed 
"Oh! You know I am English."
ouble of coarse deportment, to be like a
was not the child I am speaking of?"
her beer, and gin, and tea, and coffee, 
t so firm and steady hand, "it does not 
lace in the shadowy conceptions of a gen
loo, loo; Loo, loo, loo! And off _her_ h
that she turned from Defarge to his wife
 seen the worst of her agitation."
with a gulf on either side, for nothing 
came; and it was from your care that his
 call you?"
"Again, well? Can I feed them?"
d in slight horizontal lines of black, a
 like the real house), unaccountably rel
friend, the father of his wife. One of t
Mr. Lorry did so, and they went down-sta
out the three fishermen creeping through
e week following made all new again; he 
or a small measure of wine, Madame Defar
young, too blooming. It can't be. See wh
ly bring her. Send other women up and do
an never calculated about that. All such
loud, addressing Madame Defarge: "I have
t rule. But he is denounced--and gravely
 would do well to look round the shop am
re and the score. People not immediately
gs.
er own reflections. The devoutest person
 looking for him among the Condemned; an
him thus into the courtyard of the build
 way. Go you in alone; I wait near. Lose
"Don't be afraid to hear me. Don't shrin
"Pooh! You'd have thought!" said Miss Pr
 not the less likely to succeed on that 
ing Grace. He was brushed and washed at 
ed in to work at the grindstone; it had 
 anybody's. Had he inherited it? Yes, he
"Before I go," he said, and paused--"I m
he spring of Time--through three dark ho
s upward. There is terror in the carriag
; the drum was beating in the streets, a
 Miss Pross, bursting into tears. "Have 
rge to herself.
 the men and women come back to the chil
r. Darnay, I am sorry for it. I am sorry
nts from which anything was to be got; t
ey had seen the shadow of the actual Bas
 to write until such time as the prison 
man's brother saw her and admired her, a
 there was a folded paper in it. "We sho
two, none of your not touching of it, an
 down at the plane-tree; but, on Mr. Lor
iciously were the people moved, that tea
ou, good gentlemen, do not come near us,
1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF 
ble creature, of a crazed aspect, is so 
. Besides that I should know it to be ho
ould be what it now is, it may spare all
"President, I indignantly protest to you
newly released from the dark obscurity o
 shaking his head, "about leaving of you
died, years before. These solemn words, 
otine card! Do you play?"
asions when two or three ragged peasants
inished. Miss Pross had nothing beautifu
audible to them in a dull, subdued way, 
Mr. Cruncher was soothed, but shook his 
will believe this of me."
 work, so much more like the top of a st
"I am going," said Mr. Stryver, leaning 
ost of pride, the ghost of frivolity, th
on my knees, on these stones, to avenge 
re of your calling. And gradually, what 
ghter into awaiting the result in idle d
been alone, and then I have imagined the
ot lessened by the accidental circumstan
GES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSI
nd composedly looked at him while they m
mma, something to save papa! O, look at 
rippling stones of the pavement, with th
"Seeking them from me, my nephew," said 
ch he has recovered, so completely, as t
e vexed coachman, "and not atop of Shoot
"Citizen Defarge," said he to Darnay's c
 however, as the men.
ce then, they have gradually taken their
 thankful to Heaven for his recovered se
 provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
 There is nothing in you to like; you kn
o scratch his head. Except on the crown,
towards the window where the keeper of t
of the narrow street in the suburb of Sa
This wine-shop keeper was a bull-necked,
efarge?"
 Something to that effect was said by th
the heart; so rendered and so free from 
ss he got, the greater his power seemed 
eelings! I have no time for them, no cha
d upon his breast, and raising her eyes 
self is--as the light called human life 
nd do you make any gesture that will att
ent of his second arrest, gradually weak
 state of the prisoner when released and
ance of life. Besides that all secret me
e you out to be more than due."
about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-t
ten in every small loaf of his scanty st
lents better."
What fine hidden sensibilities are touch
 he had no right to imperil Tellson's by
o ill with the prisoner, I have ensured 
 knew so well by this time, whether he a
e," said he, "that you people cannot tak
brings it home, and in the middle of the
 as dear to others as he was to her, eve
ncher," returned Miss Pross, "that you n
I have ensured access to him, once."
dly at her, and said, "The wife of Evrem
I _don't_ understand him. You may tell h
 the appeal of an innocent prisoner, in 
direct."
ck. He knew of no rock; he saw hardly an
ct upon, that every human creature is co
"Now, look here! I am going to tell you 
. Madame Defarge wore no rose in her hea
"When I returned to the bedside of the y
n a soothing tone, bringing his left han
he words I used, to claim it yet. If it 
fessed unbeliever in ghosts should be fr
tting not far from Mr. Lorry, begged to 
tified in saying anything about this mat
IS' WITH NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND
ntre, by fasting and seeing of spirits. 
e, and that a reference to his long ling
he night, and he is in the midst of many
"I mind nothing while I hold your hand. 
 rose and said to him:
many long leagues, and his clothes were 
 tumbrils now jolted heavily, filled wit
umph, not even the Doctor's entreaties c
ompanion had, of his own free will, assi
that he had never seen the prisoner on a
 disagreeable smell, and its obscurity, 
he next passenger, and driving him into 
sh!' There was no variation in the order
d women, not to mention beasts and vehic
ured it slowly out upon the hearth, and 
appily recovered from," said Mr. Lorry, 
Rustling about the room, his softly-slip
I'll be hanged!"
and a bold man; he has deserved well of 
 though young in years, was old in the t
w eBooks, and how to subscribe to our em
hieves, the huts of millions of starving
ty, sorrow, or kindred humanity, in this
 it was down, "my way out of this, is, t
is for thine own dear sake. Thou wilt be
ese."
 a business as he had in his secret mind
cession through the streets.
ing there all day, was straining off, wh
your authority, like a dear good man. Fo
it in appearance.
o much as suspended, while the eyes surv
gh which they were seen, that Charles Da
 side by side, she leaning on his should
erence. If your father had not died when
; and that while ingress into the city f
treated. "Will you tell me who denounced
"What of your husband, the forester? Alw
As the ancient clerk deliberately folded
"Mr. Lorry, look again upon the prisoner
y the reverse--but, it cleared off (as t
"Some papers had been handed about among
impossible to be regarded in any other l
rother's eyes, their expression reminded
ise I am going to exact; I have a reason
f his scanty stock of bad bread; at the 
h wages, by being more than ready and wi
id; and in it, and in the old wood-ashes
"Well, well," reasoned Defarge, "but one
do you want to conwey to your own father
character.
"'Then, with that man's permission and e
or which, indeed, in her grimness, she w
e looks into the first of them: not ther
That night--it was the fourteenth of Aug
eep, come soldiers, winding down from th
h pity, and such earnest youth and beaut
that, and the ploughs go steadily onward
n, the swift river ran, the day ran into
is hour or two, that he had, or could ha
embers were asleep and some awake, some 
nal circumstance beyond his control--the
runcher, and finding him of her opinion,
n."
ld me to call you."
steep staircase, out of the staircase in
 of it was lost in the raging fever of a
eir places in walls. Every pulse and hea
't have my wittles blest off my table. K
could go with me, I should esteem it hig
s that a wood-sawyer, living by the pris
er, or had had it recalled to him (for t
"Where," repeated the same personage, wi
e Hall, like birds of prey from their hi
ed the staff of domestics regarded her a
w this is a confidence," she modestly sa
o the end that is to end him. That is al
 answer, but perhaps you will take a ver
e. Thou wilt be faithful, little Charles
ow coming to himself, and was mistrustfu
efarge, letting her eyes turn to him wit
sing him. I never saw her more.
she modestly said, after a little hesita
t, did she know that eleven hundred defe
 Jacques in his time. Then, there were g
t with flint and steel, pulled at it unt
nother of the people's enemies and insul
e by cheating at play? Never. Ever live 
d, as if he waved that away. "On the dru
 shade than the pendent lamp could throw
le grinding and regrinding in the mill, 
and his troubled eyes on Carton.
t building up some weak structure of hop
 I feel, since last night, that I dare n
 Almost at the first word, Monsieur Defa
ne Hundred and Five, North Tower?" asked
lutched and dragged a hundred ways.
round her waist, "I hear them moving in 
 in your hand?"
 Marquis, one little bird sang its sweet
y had it lost the life and resonance of 
h; I should not think either, likely. Yo
"He tried to explain to me how that quar
 was beyond fear and beyond reproach, to
earest wall.
 passenger a small folded paper. The rid
a small one) again. "Can't-be. Spoke goo
 his softening in any slight degree. He,
at the sun from among a rank garden-full
t, and adorned with every device of deco
many to the Guillotine to-day?"
arquis slowly ascending the hill, he han
swinging himself out of his saddle, and,
ing Forgeries this morning?"
 an old dungeon, which had been, for man
en him through a scene of carnage to the
during the cessation of its usefulness, 
 walls, and the eight great towers. Slig
bitterness of mine."
ution song, keeping a ferocious time tha
ndsome boy whose life was ebbing out, as
he good physician who sits there."
 fell lightly on the floor. Carton took 
had become the Doctor's friend, and the 
ue Briton, and hoped there were many lik
him more than his (Mr. Attorney-General'
as, that these faces drooped merely to s
m, rage, roar, and turn cataleptic on th
self into an expression that was not qui
rseman, answered curtly, "Sir."
ne, indispensable in hospital and prison
h I am about to touch may not--"
ty than the bed of this here Thames rive
Country
g some interesting associations with you
some gruff coughing and rubbing of his c
at, if I can prevent your knowing it; an
 of a musical instrument.
ht Mr. Lorry, in his amiably shrewd way,
er of people. In the gloomy tile-paved e
rl was dead. Her hope had been, she said
as music to her. Nor, how there were ech
ak of her at any time. It is very hard f
 falling on the prison, are falling, in 
peculiar inclination towards the left ch
round his wrist), Darnay said, as soon a
" said Miss Pross.
 Carton, and said, with more decision, "
agnole; after kissing little Lucie, who 
mbers, the Tribunals of Justice, and all
 he stood smoking with his hand on the b
 it was his real grasp.
is neck the arm that shook upon his shou
, travellers!" "See here then, Monsieur 
Twopence for myself. I know that the lon
ore bent over the shoe. The look and the
losing in about the women who sat knitti
to beg a little talk with your brother. 
louds, nor was it more expressive of neg
blic by rooting out an obnoxious family 
hment, and the prisoner withdrew to the 
red more natural to it than sunshine.
 that the pretence will be the common on
dstone; it had evidently been set up the
 of the relapse?"
 out of temper, and kept an iron pot-lid
ke to find third parties in common sense
"Good," said the imperturbable master. "
 a little distance, like an outer satell
It was an ordinance of the Republic One 
p me there."
 and writing, knitting, sewing, and embr
amps, and the more than winking watchmen
rk, three letters. They were done with s
 reflected in it, and had passed from it
"I don't know; I prefer not to do so. No
stomer out, still to keep on bowing in t
nd ordered in another.
had known him more scantily than ever; a
-but had not got out of the Circumferenc
 the tops of the still trees, and poured
"What is it, brother? What's it about?"
o-morrow, you remember, and I had better
ou belong to this terrestrial scheme aga
 taxers and taxed were fast asleep. Drea
man whom he stopped in his character of 
ult by a far brighter light, to recognis
 and a very respectable thing. And, sir,
lerated for its old service, and taken n
"_I_ say a horse at a gallop, Tom," retu
ood, compassionate sir, for the truth!"
or.
ill find him, when you come back, as qui
"Surely it will release him!" said Madam
t of his red woollen shirt, said:
ition."
, and asked her "What is the magic secre
emnation, he had travelled thus far on h
ad some waifs of goodness in them for th
t was always summer in Eden, to these da
work.
Monseigneur had been out at a little sup
Nevertheless, it was not easy, with the 
leasure and diversion, for a little whil
aid, looking about him, "turned this way
 yielded before his persevering purpose.
they never could lay their heads upon th
fter not setting eyes upon you or hearin
beseeching for mercy; now full of veheme
    Chapter X      The Substance of the 
eyed an air of mystery to those words, w
 breath, and would stop it for ever and 
ull confidence on my part. My present na
, he groped with a cautious touch.
deserved. Then, she withdrew her hand, a
doors of dark dens and cages, down caver
e's flanks, and the postmaster shut and 
The door of the Doctor's room opened, an
at ardour to the acquisition of professi
hed just one grain of cough. This, in co
o the user, provide a copy, a means of e
. Lorry did not press him.
at, in all this country round about us, 
a struggle there was within him!
ed for her sake. She is everything to me
y modest quality, were so well cooked an
3, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archiv
cher made out that some kind of funeral 
es his hair a little more loosely about 
"John."
he road. The English customer was not wi
can others. Now, what do you want with m
fields that had yielded no fruits of the
ith, and left behind.
ered from the weather that very day, rud
anged times were fraught with other obst
garden. So wicked do destruction and sec
"Two French gentlemen."
tly at one another. The Vengeance stoope
asting philosophy. The dark deference of
ergone a change, and that wot I only hop
The prisoner wrung his hand.
ng off, or just coming on.
 have sent him to you in the best health
ock, in gravel, and alluvial mud, under 
from a neighbouring public-house, and sm
d no one can tell me where this gentlema
ment. I have passed from one to another,
n or entity providing it to you may choo
rowd roared approval.
s if he had been struggling in the surf 
il hour detecting his infamy, had resolv
She had moved from the wall of the garre
l attribute that the partners in the Hou
 him," said Mr. Lorry, with an anxious l
"I play my Ace, Mr. Barsad," said Carton
ter and messenger, who served as the liv
 said, however, that the cognac was flat
ist, with the stain all over their limbs
rom states where we have not met the sol
or me; nobody will care to interfere wit
 lost spirits. Other seven faces there w
ake to you, is, that you will believe th
, or fancied it detected, on his face, a
the house. He was never absent during bu
because I felt that it might one day be 
"Ah!" returned the other, sighing: "yes!
my ease. Time enough, then, to think abo
beying wife would let his trade alone al
and last night climbed in--a common dog,
 be released that night. The lights were
he doesn't, he can stay away), and I fee
ooked handsomely diabolic.
the top of a strongly spiked wall than a
The August of the year one thousand seve
oving on his method, and hauling up men 
reat violence and indignity, and brought
wly passed among the mirrors on his way 
ack of her chair, it was very agreeable 
"If he's found Guilty, you mean to say?"
t Antoine turned himself inside out, and
for the second time, and began knotting 
ow many more!"
ded where to go. "At Tellson's banking-h
gle syllable could have been spoken on e
 and its silences and impediments, Mr. D
he mature Jerry bit and spat out straw, 
 name; "and as such, my maxim is, Confou
our cottage--our dog-hut, as that man wo
g live the Devil! Go on."
Mr. Carton, who had so long sat looking 
ng to him publicly, you know."
 than any communications yet received th
inner anywhere."
ts should be frightened by a ghost story
es? I am not a scholar."
he boundless everlasting sea. Before the
at it called the healthy blood into his 
y, this worn-out murderer descried in th
ep the flint and steel sparks well off t
rchive Foundation
officers destitute of military knowledge
p female newly-born, and called La Guill
hey were turned towards the posting-hous
"It is of the utmost importance to me (y
nessed him and drove him. You know that 
"May I go with you, father?" asked his s
ord. Kicked on that occasion for cheatin
"Partly through paying me to help you, I
ught which had last perplexed him, he ha
 no shoemaking, no One Hundred and Five,
are we ready?"
y were left alone at the desk, in the ge
s. You are in a bad way, you know; you r
n her hands as the crowd waited to see t
m, and it is Charles. If it had not been
 I made the same of it myself."
en what you have to do, is, to remain th
ibunal's patriotic remembrance--until th
tence, with active links to, or other im
r. Carton took it up, and there was a fo
he waves that broke upon the neighbourin
s up, were more horrible and cruel than 
ere their bodies most resorted, and Mons
 of loungers, squalid and miserable, but
***** This file should be named 98-8.txt
e Grand Opera, the Comedy, the whole Fan
ad done. I had not known how to do it we
"I made the patient swallow, with great 
ife in it, terrible in history. It is li
themselves. As they stood side by side n
Long ago, when he had been famous among 
ce improved.
"These words are formed by the rusty iro
d day, going home stealthily and unstead
for the refreshment of the frosty air, a
ou live hard, you'll knock up one of the
II. A Sight
 the night, straight and warm to his hea
have done nothing. I am not unwilling to
"Stop!"
y it, even if it wos so. And wot little 
arge, recalls to me," pursued the spy, "
rs at him as an aristocrat; otherwise, t
"'For his sake, Doctor,' she said, point
epressed all day, and would say that her
uly noble idea that it must all go his w
n so great, that in our wild alarm and h
adth between them. Good-humoured looking
into his carriage, and drove away. Not m
only because that was the safest way of 
tter," said Charles Darnay to Mr. Lorry.
f, while those numskulls were deliberati
"Yes. We are quite a French House, as we
bject, anywhere or in any way, and to re
own by Lucie and her husband in the dark
"What have you been, besides a messenger
s for the consignment of any one to the 
her?"
ant. One. Two. Three. Three tumbrils far
ion of prisoners' faces fresh in his min
ll the wide dominions of sleep, that nig
et, as the boy had done.
 low watery grounds. Suddenly, the posti
ked.
the peril of the accused. This had been 
arren and our miserable race die out!'
nature, which might get people into trou
erry standing by him, when not engaged i
 chimney, mixed with blood, in the last 
 which reason, Doctor Manette," said Dar
eld up, and the knitting-women who scarc
there is no Time there, and no trouble t
epetition of the phrase, walking up and 
of people, as well as of time and space.
"I did."
except the scarecrows), the Fancy Ball d
the interested object of squeezing himse
eyes bent on the ground. At the last wor
ectators in back rows stood up, not to m
 and the sun, while the river sparkled u
ent on:
Her father, cheering her, showed a compa
tte has carried about him. It is a simil
 of great promise, he had followed his f
addressed to her by the same post.
He had still the linstock of his gun in 
aring himself at his late client to that
l to do."
which were always under a shower-bath of
 and trepidation to show that she was th
That was done too, and the Marquis went 
entered, "is from Saint Antoine."
ssion repeated on the fair young face of
be flatter than its shining surface was 
thick and dark, the people were so passi
y, the coach stands in the little street
e, asked, "Of how long duration?"
These three young gentlemen, Mr. Stryver
He took out his purse.
"I always am sound; am I not?"
 fingers for the perplexity of the brain
night of the autumn month of September, 
"Citizen Manette, be tranquil. To fail i
his happiness, that he would bring you t
have known Doctor Manette and his daught
 the morning, or dressing a doll at her 
ily affairs in France, he being of Frenc
nd towards the moon. "I have looked at h
a run, the hoops had burst, and it lay o
ough very warmly as to the Doctor. "Miss
minutes, ringing those measured changes 
 through the mud, and round the corner o
n or two in the already darkening street
al time next morning to finish it. It wa
mprisonment, had had to pay heavily for 
ired, or to offer an opinion until invit
till you've been long abed."
t, now they seemed to have got a bite. T
seeking to execute the last request of m
 if not more so. Well, that 'ud be impos
as he, without doubt, who scratched a ca
 may be, in part, natural to it; in part
 well cooked and so well served, and so 
at the top of the hill, both?"
 skill and gentleness: calling her "my p
ind. It is the case of a shock under whi
Old England; but now, everything is stop
you know, Mr. Stryver--" Mr. Lorry pause
ner. I have said that he had reason to f
s not to speak until required, or to off
hould) this comrade. With him, I came on
 sat so still, that he might have been s
erg-tm work in a format other than "Plai
nd reverted to that, he answered:
XI. A Companion Picture
od Republican Brutus of Antiquity, excep
es that were blended in her life.
, rather than he would leave her for a m
recisely the same order of continuity. I
"And whose fault was that?"
The strange thrill with which she heard 
n stew that had been boiling there all d
d, and bumped upon its tedious way, with
ned to go out when he could extract no a
the office of Tellson's Bank, for instan
other Solomon, if he hadn't made a mista
fruit to black divinities of the feminin
he second. Mr. Darnay, let me ask you a 
ing any fees or charges.  If you are red
ver? Yes. How many times? Two or three t
ent, and any volunteers associated with 
ice,
t a great crash, and then a great stilln
 had happened, whether he recollected wh
 bound fast at his hips, with cords that
n more desirous in his heart to serve a 
xtending both arms at their length above
t.'
 the full as interested in the place, ho
st on their haunches. We are pursued?
rles Darnay had yesterday pleaded Not Gu
 You were always in the front rank, and 
The obscurity was so difficult to penetr
have hazarded for Lucie and her child, w
Mr. Lorry had not thought of that, and h
error and wonder of the beholders on the
or; no people were discernible at any of
, hurriedly, and cried:
 finest feathers; would you not?"
and wore jack-boots. Not one of the thre
lden arm starting out of the wall of the
"Can you identify him as your fellow-pas
. "Patriots and friends, we are ready! T
ecause certain men who had by some wonde
nough now; but, at that time, it was vil
 sat down alone to his sumptuous and cho
 walked at his side.
m's length and to have the stool well be
hook hands with a customer when the Hous
 while his eye strayed to the House afar
er. English. Which is he?"
oration you have brought to me, that the
irmative, "Then bring me another pint of
 on him.
"Jacques," returned Defarge, drawing him
ed with wine. And one other thing regard
both reflected in the glass above them.
As the keeper of the wine-shop entered a
creating derivative works based on the w
hoes, it has been remarked, that corner 
ed on all public employments from which 
ing, with an engaging smile, "Good day, 
 'I am that Doctor Manette of whom you s
e to the blotting-paper stage, remarked:
n posted on the official Project Gutenbe
Defarge took his receipt without noticin
anybody who touches his master."
m became more and more rapid. The corner
of all the Angels or the Devils--which y
he book, made other entries of her own, 
t now, in saying I had no feelings, and 
Mr. Lorry reddened, and said, warmly, "Y
he Sheep of the prisons were in the adjo
far greater advantage than you influence
d Charles's love for me. But, if my life
mind to it, and advise me well for his s
t to the least; the arrangement of colou
en it was confronted with his own on the
 the latter, "she is better so. Don't re
gestion, whispered to Madame Defarge tha
ords. The leading curiosity is, to know 
esolved, "that these people should know 
Madame Defarge received it as a complime
Darkness had fallen on him in its place.
 as many of both sexes as could rush at 
ring of woe, the disorderly procession w
them and the fire, a young lady of not m
ght manner, but changed and raised the m
 Mr. Lorry looked at Jerry in considerab
notice that the elderly gentleman said i
upon it in the mail. As the bank passeng
 sooner; took horse for Dover; and began
; if it had not been difficult to guess 
"It was to you," said the spy, "that his
 jar of a drum was heard as she moved it
oving and dejected head at her by no mea
gain, in a well-satisfied manner.
fted up the eyes she had momentarily dar
id Mr. Stryver, looking at him with shar
ed for him, nobody asked for him, nobody
w to Miss Manette.
"I ask none, sir. But I have thought it 
e of them?"
g, in cavalry alone. Saint Antoine wrote
d do that," answered Jerry.
"Why, man alive, she was the admiration 
 his portrait.
's chair, looking over that barrier at t
art to serve a friend, than I am to serv
e, by placing my ear close to her lips. 
e had been any eyes to notice the influe
ual passers-by, as Old Bailey spies, and
room, they are gone, and can be pursued 
ary taint, he had such an exalted respec
rring on my friend Mr. Charles!"
logy, "he is afraid of the whole subject
 until her little daughter was six years
g rain of stabs and blows fell heavy; wa
under the plane-tree, and she carried th
omers approached the counter, and showed
r fortnight's trip in Wales, you shall s
 bending over it, and the tall man with 
 work; looked with a vacant air of liste
per through the throng. "Quick! Have you
e hand on his account; and then recrosse
d adventurous perquisitions into all the
were so much more steady than they had b
-stairs to the chariot which Mr. Lorry h
end, if you deserve it, and repent in ac
ross it. In a few minutes, some mortar a
rds, when, raising his voice and turning
, in the mean time, to show myself? I th
attle in its throat, you fell into Tells
Quickly, but with hands as true to the p
ot permitted to write to him: for, among
, yet never seeming to be hurried, or to
t. Samples of a people that had undergon
Not seeing with precision what was very 
On this second day, Mr. Lorry saluted hi
 was secured to your mother and to you. 
y of a French citizen, who represented t
y, where a stone has been worked out and
 of the body, so the paleness which his 
at towers surrendered!
 a moving light, from him to her.
tly forgetful of me--rather, altogether 
"What vapour is that?" he asked.
e altogether perished from the remembran
ce, and his sobs strike against my heart
 be expected from them until they were d
 screeching at him all the time, and the
had astounded him scarcely less than the
"Keep where you are," the guard called t
 at the fire; gave no orders; and answer
ring him into the village; all the villa
Mr. Lorry asked him as before:
 could. You will not be the cause of my 
"I had not thought of both; I should not
er brother Solomon was a heartless scoun
e of you has already been there, and can
s head will be chopped off, and he'll be
 he thinks, if you stood in a certain pl
.
 older and wiser he was than she. He mad
oisting up men for lamps to show what he
 sad, the dull sky overcast, the river d
as been my bodyguard on Sunday nights fo
s to plump a noun-substantive at the hea
s pocket, opened a locked cupboard, and 
"Where is my bench? I have been looking 
n "flopping" in some pointed manner, whe
s, was easy and natural. At last, after 
.
 and of this home made such a home by yo
e is such an uneasiness in Paris, that w
lence, some of us will have a secret att
y of reasons, Tellson's was at that time
(name of my learned friend) for treason?
 head or lose it, for any interest I hav
e garret in Paris. Yet, no one could hav
heir shoulders at the light and freshnes
ty, handsomely dressed, haughty in manne
t, so, all this raging circled round Def
her he would have been so confident if h
"Do I date it?"
"--any fancies, any reasons, any apprehe
ctrine, my wife," said Defarge, rather t
ables looked round over their shoulders 
delivered over any good and innocent per
alking on a retired part of the quay by 
rise from our manner of keeping the regi
But, though the Doctor tried hard, and n
ern voice, to Mr. Lorry, as they began a
 prisoner's, and even died before him. F
(Which, by the way, was more than he cou
he unwholesome mists at night, and order
rry's, which was within a few minutes' w
, my little Vengeance; see you both! Lis
The prisoner turned his face partly asid
 to-day, and I have observed her other d
ay be true."
half an hour: sometimes, pacing to and f
 a forehead that I know and golden hair,
meaning of the term, but I have heard th
ould endure a lamplighter.
r again. He had taken these lists from t
the courtyard you know of, place him you
fast, that the events of this week annih
r woman. She needed both advantages, for
etect one creature in the group free fro
 of the sanctuary, "to the Devil!"
e a sore subject with the family; let us
 hold of, at the reception of Monseigneu
autions. That, the proof would go back f
d soul, I have been ashamed of you, Sydn
"There was nothing in this action to att
g to a subject of last night.
 hair: not more than one or two long gol
r father would have been the history of 
vated into the vacant chair a young woma
"Choice! Listen to him!" cried the same 
e a wounded bird, or hare, or rabbit; no
ended the stairs, and I found a patient 
here," pointing with his hand, "near to 
ieur Defarge.
h her eyes, every inch.
se--now, found in hunting the people; no
htly reception in his grand hotel in Par
rted the contentious Mr. Cruncher; "you'
 made great fortunes out of dainty remed
 do with Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
vremonde!"
prisoner's counsel was cross-examining t
for a while at all events--out of France
touching his hat, and saying, with an en
strong towers, some discovered letters a
"Well!" said his friend Stryver, "you ta
if people use knives for such purposes, 
se heads were bent down close together a
--"and let my words be took down and too
 Death within four-and-twenty hours!
rview has overpowered me. Such a thing h
The escorted governed his own horse, but
en ignobly waited on by only three men; 
ociation with the number twelve?'
"Lord love you, no!--I shouldn't," said 
When toned down again, the unimpeachable
soon asleep.
"Will you undertake to explain, that we 
d obliterating the jest with a handful o
kers drew figures on the tables with spi
"Doctor Manette at home?"
t. I took my young sister (for I have an
ugh to gain, to bright hopes that never 
 Quarter Saint Antoine. Possibly you hav
him, with the light of a smile on his fe
the hill there was a little burial-groun
"Swinging by the chain? To be suffocated
"_I_ think it is well."
 your brother. I wish you had a better e
The same shadows that are falling on the
gentlemen," said Stryver, looking all ro
 him, "that you have used the respectabl
s Pross and Mr. Cruncher had discharged 
lgar. From this room, many such dogs hav
could make. Here and there, especially a
st and the worst are known to you, now. 
n them, no particular interest, nothing 
, that I dare not confide to him the det
I have not proposed to the young lady, a
ame intensity, to rend him to pieces and
nous crowd gathered to see him dismount 
 lived with me, and paid me for it; whic
t eyes, the little coach-windows, and th
scal!' My faith, messieurs, I offer noth
t, Syd," said Mr. Stryver. "I don't care
radually making expiation for itself and
ot have been more violently on end, if i
 me."
ris for a provincial slave of that degre
r, in her restless strivings she had tur
as good stead to-morrow--you said he wou
"Everybody says it is but one of several
cups and saucers arranged for breakfast,
ense of smell, would surely keep anythin
 pieces and scattered far and wide with 
erever we buy it."
He was to be told (said Monseigneur) tha
onfidence, and expressing an injured rev
ht, quieting the frogs, in order that th
he turnkey. "Look among those fragments 
 doing good, which is so often the sangu
k in, looking up from her work and her l
onsideration and respect than you expres
the light of the window, by turns lookin
 with the night--in which particulars it
some words. The child, who was nearest t
rt, such a confidence as I have ventured
would wait to add that strength to her c
en the reading of this document was done
Providence would have cast my lot in an 
doll?"
w, by many remembrances that had long fa
ht nights, when the sadness and the sile
und pillars and corners, to get a sight 
 they were. The crowd about him had pres
 that he was virtually sentenced by the 
r; "if any trouble comes of this, it's y
is, and I beg you not to think it necess
reasonable fee for copies of or providin
ellson's never to be balanced in this wo
th looks of remonstrance, as though he s
e hands of the village, I have been seiz
g-table without stint, but each in a dif
ability have said to orange-trees in box
e jury, as a jury of dogs empannelled to
t did Jacques of the police tell thee?"
l, to examine that cell. It falls. I mou
e Revolution. But that Woodman and that 
d close, and were of a fine texture; his
r had enough of menace in it--not visibl
ady face, strong features, and great com
trange message. Much of that wouldn't do
r situation. Silent, humane, indispensab
 is very hard for me to hear her spoken 
any people will miss you when you leave 
us touch.
iberty, Equality, Fraternity, or Death, 
reatening them all with instant death if
 man speculate on all he has lost. Dear,
eviously shouldered him out of it--"as s
 it. They were as silent, however, as th
 with a trusty porter, to be delivered h
od-vessels into a dangerous state when i
ousands of acres of land--a whole provin
ne, and lights twinkled in little caseme
a smile while her fingers moved nimbly.
Life must hush at last--they came forwar
"You weren't. And if you were, I won't b
e her, and when her husband stood upon h
together, the Old Bailey, at that date, 
ll me, this last time, that you feel qui
 into the streets. He was in no uneasine
eral, the Doctor, the Lawyer, the Eccles
 the jackal assisted both. When the repa
shouldering him towards the door, with a
cession of negro cupids, several headles
his care. And he told him this, very str
opes and pulleys, to flare upon the dark
ushing way of shouldering himself (moral
 the remainder of the evening to keeping
e. "I have seen blue eyes and golden hai
e light in the guard-house, half derived
them moving in the next room, and Miss P
ng the whole of this scene, which lasted
bjection; and Darnay stood divided betwe
"You see me, citizen!"
stant state of change.  If you are outsi
"Certainly; and in these chambers."
He was saying the affectionate word, how
efarge. Come, now. Business, business!"
p from the depths below, no matter how f
ice--"which I don't say it is--wot I wou
ok so horrified. You will save them all.
ere so robbed, and hunted, and were made
n little casements; which lights, as the
before the timid arm was loosed from his
 wot that boy will yet be a blessing to 
or a few moments alone, looking up at th
tle Lucie, who was lifted up to clasp he
ce, the idea that he might need that old
"What is the meaning of One Hundred and 
r of the mourning coach.
hased, and likewise gold to be beaten by
ength, on Sunday night when all the vill
im any wrong. I never thought this of hi
er, stating the nature of the two cases 
 actively employed, the swift changes an
coach-door as his custom was. He did it 
 but he was by that time clear-headed, a
 the abstraction that overclouded him fi
service to her who had rendered so much 
ular friends, and was smiting himself in
e absorbed them every one and whirled th
is such an old companion."
Ear of a place, that as Mr. Lorry stood 
-street, was a very different Young Jerr
ame. He said that this business had, wit
"Dead as mutton," returned the other, "a
n I spare this Doctor to my husband? I h
t, and not find it, gives him a sudden s
sound asleep after dinner. For the first
than even Tellson's, with all its foreig
 to Heaven and to earth."
 open, horses in their stables looked ro
o please him, however, with an increasin
reat lords in power at the Court, held h
and undirected, I can do so little. Pray
 also, for the whipping-post, another de
 child whom he had held in his arms on t
d punch which one man would swallow in t
ying soils of France, as if the dragon's
ght into light from the dark cellars of 
and the Stryver principal opened the doo
ave been to Soho."
that "nonsense" (as she was pleased to c
nd most agreeable characteristics. Simpl
rst of the bad race, to answer for them 
"I am conscious of nothing; there can be
 shot up into the sky instead of having 
Monseigneur, to conduct the happy chocol
very rapid sentence, and every rapid sen
. Mr. Lorry's spirits grew heavier and h
 and blue eyes. And we seldom have a chi
d your having no enjoyment of women's so
Such a heart Madame Defarge carried unde
ge and new sensation while his words wer
o such Revolution, if all laws, forms, a
 memory is circumstantial and unshaken. 
n if his chocolate had been ignobly wait
gone for ever, twelve coming on to pass 
erry, keeping as close to house fronts, 
ng ladies made curtseys in those days), 
avour? As to whether your name is John S
ny prisoner with those initials, and man
ushed straight from the dock at my Lord 
ught no transitory gladness to him; many
n ambassadors had one and all left Paris
. To him, now entered Charles Darnay, at
nd laid her blooming cheek against his f
"No one has told me so," said Defarge, s
in amazement at this turn of the busines
ought that the usual order of things was
Nothing but the production of the afflic
an seems to throw a shadow on me and on 
d at a chemist's shop, which the owner w
 front there! Save the prisoner Evremond
now, at least, is it not very strange"--
ld be extinguished.
high above him. "I am the resurrection a
e windows, by the heads exposed on Templ
 arms, he said to her:
"I fear not yet. It would be dangerous f
"Come, come!" said he, in a whimpering m
raising his glass of Bordeaux to his lip
rom the floor in the struggle that they 
ontempt, 'No.'
dangerous retrospect towards which he fo
oud for years past, a letter de cachet w
asured Madame Defarge with her eyes, eve
 more rare.
ring with lights, and would find the peo
 wished to retire. My Lord (perhaps with
he brown upon his cheek, showing the sou
t back," said Madame Defarge to herself.
ad, as being in expectation of a drawbri
respects--or in all respects--as he was 
nd had not a weak spot in it. He called 
is post," said another--this Monseigneur
all the town was asleep. Among the many 
actised, and where dire diseases were br
hat would staid British responsibility a
ng shapes, voices of vengeance, and face
world--the King, the Queen, and Court; l
treets, and no one will be accessible un
e were so passionately revengeful and fi
He was so unlike what he had ever shown 
e floor on the other side of him; then, 
r's firm and equal. Lo, Miss Pross, in h
that a gentleman like yourself wot I've 
"Then say the prisoner."
"Jerry," said Mr. Lorry. "Come here."
"Will you go out?"
ssed her."
This third interchange of the Christian 
wn upon him by a summer sun, when the su
 some other one, which led, especially a
 replied, "Yes--I am working." This time
 had talked with him at the reception; h
y had kept his eyes open, but had been a
"If you had sent the message, 'Recalled 
True. I forget what you were accused of?
those which had developed themselves whe
 her as it was with many. But, from the 
touch me, except to overwhelm me with em
When the mail got successfully to Dover,
Monseigneur (often a most worthy individ
most in the guard upon the governor who 
d rider came slowly through the eddying 
 flowers, and books, and desk, and work-
The night deepened. The trees environing
 through my mother's surviving my father
e shadows of the night revealed themselv
g the darkness to elicit loud remonstran
soon as the driver could rein in his hor
Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with th
rk in earnest to root out a single sin, 
 veil on her bonnet, or she could hardly
turn to approach the gate: which he did,
The murmuring of many voices, the upturn
flints, and the last screw of the rack h
nds here and there. Finally, he had prop
e of nothing but the horses; as to which
"I think you have been drinking, Mr. Car
olishing the lawful ringer, rang for joy
the paper in the breast: "is your hazard
 said Mr. Lorry, with the manners of an 
The Doctor grasped his hand, and murmure
"No, no, no; you are too young, too bloo
gained us news of Charles there, and bro
ss, who had never struck a blow in her l
They turned into the wine-shop, which wa
 the adjacent open space and streets. Th
"I do not question all this. But it has 
rnay with great difficulty checked himse
 light of this later time, they would ap
played gently with their meagre children
orry was there, and Doctor Manette was t
rd at the moon, "until to-morrow. I can'
ul eyes of those forgers and false swear
te like any other, and nothing could mak
unimagined at that time in the brains of
sleep may not be disturbed. They kept hi
"
 more practised, the ingenuity of the ha
been more than five hours gone: where co
e had been slightly overlooked in his pr
 his chin, pull his wig at the ears, or 
ieur Manette had not died; if he had sud
ligation," returned Darnay, "but I will 
 ox may, its lean inhabitants slept soun
w), I was insufferable about liking you,
u know how gloomy and threatening the sk
red uproar.
 the tread of her tiny feet and the soun
 very ignorant, and it troubles me--just
at its little heaps of poor grass were u
 there was a new sustaining pride in it.
Again Darnay answered not a word.
d is not _that_, in the thick of busines
r blood from running cold, as he thus tr
e revenge.
wn against them."
dge, which was already very large. But, 
t he had taken nothing but a little ligh
for, with his back towards the door, and
rve him for an introduction to familiar 
"Tst! Joe!" cried the coachman in a warn
 to Death; the sounders of three-fourths
onial intentions," answered Carton, with
rother! One, two, three, four, five, six
st sail on, until he struck. He knew of 
er's sake, never to seek to know whether
starlight ride.
ot"--the apprehension came suddenly into
vered it myself that day.
pon the stairs."
 knowing it; and know that, or not know 
oachful look at his sister; "if any trou
s, nor merit any," was the careless rejo
 in the red coals no harm, otherwise tha
 may fancy strikes to the heart of a los
going again with an energy which had lai
ut to death, and for to-morrow's victims
 of God, this Foulon! O Heaven our suffe
backward over their necks, some women he
er sauce to wretched bread. Yet, human f
ople shortened and frayed away; and then
heavy curses; would they not?"
," said Miss Pross.
e old editions will be renamed.
 prisoner. There is no patriot in Paris-
 I speak of success with the young lady;
It flashed upon Miss Pross's mind that t
tly struggled with the man who had come 
ey heard him on the stairs. The instant 
she had been trying to soften the pain i
ed the favour of a word.
n hers too. He turned her full to the li
 it be treated? How does it come about a
"My opinion, miss," returned Mr. Crunche
r. Lorry's attention. It was not merely 
wildness, she panted out in his arms, im
ept two, for which he looked in vain. On
 drew up in his travelling carriage at t
him.
particularly repaying their trouble, whi
 the fountain; the water ran dry; the ex
at you well remember."
re, snuffed about by pigs, and roosted i
cross his florid face: "do you know, I r
n, are you?"
 of her Christian pastors, she entertain
 I believe," said Mr. Lorry, rather halt
o much--and with reason--that he caused 
 and their very names were blotting out,
ssed a single day.
 show a dog his natural prey, if you wis
t likely to be heard, and I pray for bod
st part too much occupied in thinking ho
's bosom.
the fruitful banks of the broad rivers, 
t I should succeed."
on in the order, or the manner. There wa
 from any despondency or dangerous retro
y.
erhead: all scared, all lost, all wonder
 the night?"
 already gone from here to-day, it might
d with as loud and harsh an accompanimen
runcher, who all this time had been putt
so that the sky could be only seen by st
 who were small enough for his amiable p
y: you think I am drunk?"
ted a man with his elbows bound fast at 
Twice more in all; but, the last spell o
r little fountain, and says, 'To me! Bri
 delicate honour to the sense of smell, 
mode. I have had a pattern in my hand." 
 Universal Mother, else so wide apart an
House."
n came on board--"
 part in a public demonstration out of d
 was remarkable that nobody in the neigh
 and gave the word "Go on!"
s are taken out; leisurely, the coach st
the ghostly face would rise, and he woul
ment in his answer--"various business."
looked at it (his lips and his nails wer
jectionable, it would be less respectabl
 guard called to the voice in the mist, 
is hand.
e occupation, he turned into the quiet c
ying there, and that it would have been 
"I believe that if you were not in disgr
s robbed in peace; that magnificent pote
 business-like an exterior as he could o
ner already engaged in these pernicious 
are, from where he sat, of a most remark
ck?"
"With his hand in the girl's?"
er my existence--which I half believe yo
ry of the Tower, on that old Sunday unde
iform and it takes a considerable effort
n pavement, and out upon the mire-deep r
astonishment, the answer being obvious. 
"Pretty witness," he muttered, looking d
 be ungrateful. But for my great respect
 past, with the day breaking. Turn me in
ed patriots in red caps and tri-coloured
 group, just as he had previously should
"Assuredly I did."
 that means. Let me see her. Go tell her
ere only the exceptions required to prov
 cupboard, and brought forth a sack, a c
 slow years of the North Tower--ages ago
hirled into the corner, caught them up t
nde. Now, thou hast kissed a good Republ
         http://www.gutenberg.org/9/98/
s modicum of hard and bitter bread to su
 day; no man in a stranger situation. Si
tles, smelt them, and put the stoppers t
ollow and harsh. Six tumbrils carry the 
usband had said to her that no cares and
uld, though he thought heavily of these 
m so, with the customary prison sign of 
silence, and words fell on him as they w
rly beautiful, as hers when it was confr
failing, to Ranelagh; that unaccountably
ge of which he had so strong an impressi
of paper, on which was scrawled:
c virtues of antiquity, and for sacrific
last door on his way, and turning in the
good-humour and good-fellowship, what he
Their conference was very short, but ver
 of mine. Pray give your mind to it, and
gallows somewhere in the sky.
y hand, Mr. Barsad?"
three impressed itself upon him more and
's entreaties could prevent his being ca
other, and not know that a mother's firs
mself precious, and menaced a similar co
 husband's name in the faith that I knew
or you."
ads, once so submissive to authority, ha
ible by the widest array of equipment in
ort, slight, pretty figure, a quantity o
ood upon you, as a sign that I do it. In
nglish government, the enemy of France a
n his work. He never looked at the figur
erious giant who had a golden arm starti
 exempt status with the IRS.
n and form, to call the young lady's fat
ay, to know that I had it."
ired doll. The young lady is Miss Manett
s my knife," throwing it to him; "rip op
ar prisoner especially, among the many u
 on the tails of the race. Him, Darnay h
hey remained looking on for hours; soldi
 Madame Defarge with her work in her han
n? You know the consequences of mixing t
onsigned, Evremonde, to the prison of La
rned Defarge.
er husband could have looked at her as s
ade and fine linen, there was a flutter 
g in the mill, and certainly not in the 
m that fatal register, and would quash h
n eyed him inquisitively.
 who wished to see me.
lastered ceiling to a part of it; the re
re. Many added that he looked sublime an
IV. Calm in Storm
.
 fellow-countryman which lies before you
 friend in the Conciergerie. And the fri
en," said Miss Pross, "go to the posting
nly three men; he must have died of two.
f it would be red upon many there.
Monsieur the Marquis walked to and fro i
e so dear to a good citizen as the Repub
 their courses could usually be, were in
d up the stony steep, to the prison on t
rvive the truth through the best part of
 shutting and locking the door and takin
reft of her final hope and reliance, app
"Witnesses."
and also of a curtained alcove in the re
darting in again with an undutiful grin.
ss."
g circumstances to evoke them.
from the eyes of the body, of his two co
 same time, the thin straight lines of t
, "Thank _God!_"
, you're eligible!" said Mr. Lorry. "If 
. He confirms me. He knows that a wood-s
was most to be relied upon, came quickes
, all at once.
As it passed, leaving Lucie frightened a
on.
Knitted, in her own stitches and her own
 her too soon." Sometimes, it was given 
s between this and to-morrow afternoon a
ve him! Foulon who told my baby it might
I speak of causes and reasons to make su
ear Manette."
n--can I use no influence to serve you? 
me upward, that I thought were silent fo
y to Mr. Lorry. "I would not consent to 
shore.
"Man, man!" returned Carton, stamping hi
streets and under his swinging lamps: of
e United States.
tion, which became greater every instant
ned patriots and good republicans as yes
 friend. "Now, would it not be better th
ourself known to these devils, and get t
yself of. In your reception of it, don't
iley, and eke at the Sessions, Mr. Stryv
p to its ears, as if it were laughing. I
uniform, the eyes connected with the arm
ain upon the fire, and, after a silence 
y people who were watching it, when his 
ly, the messenger found out the door he 
 her to take in every point of her quiet
d in the most violent Quarter, and doubt
 upon a sandy shore--as the little Lucie
 and beautifying features of Monseigneur
 of wine upon it, and brandy, and rum, a
ht?" asked his decent wife, when he took
berg Literary Archive Foundation."
o Versailles. It was additionally discon
Doctor Manette had made it his one urgen
ill thirsty cry, trooping women variousl
y figure, and that was a woman's. "See, 
ken, and not in the balance of suspense 
for years overlooked, or always designed
t you might have been! Change places wit
e morning, unconscious where he was or w
Such a man came upon him, like a ghost, 
ng worked out in his own unhappy land by
siness it sometimes causes me that has l
st of all pointed at emigrants who were 
 Madame Defarge, stopping in her work fo
cie weeping, alone. She was thrown into 
 winding the golden thread which bound h
"Good day, madame," said the new-comer.
 For, there was something coming in the 
and restless interval, until dawn, they 
Carton rejoining, "Nothing in life!" Dar
"Yes, citizen."
s, of being exhausted. Ha, ha, ha! He is
Defarge stopped short, and stared at him
if the sound of even a single French wor
r been in prison? Certainly not. Never i
ve to you, seeing how indifferently you 
beast thought of the possibility of turn
r-general of seventy, whose riches could
ap, awry on the wretchedest head, had th
d, he commanded himself, and was silentl
Mr. Barsad."
, so spectral did they become in the ina
l stoppage at the barrier guardhouse, an
 swelled because of being bound so tight
ou can bear it?"
cept that I never held her in my arms; i
, all of which are confirmed as Public D
f his father's having disappeared of his
you want with me?"
f the country. Who was he?"
"Almost eighteen years."
e turned at the grated door, to render t
 as they went into the house, the busine
ok to keep the register in her memory al
 is to be right. Being made right by you
 the prisoner's hand, and it was his rea
not a head in the nation but must have d
had come.
oor      Chapter VIII   A Hand at Cards 
 I'm going to. Going a fishing."
 still seated under the tree, and shone 
y. My heart is touched now, by many reme
"Ah! indeed!" said Miss Pross. "I am ver
this journey, if he could have foreseen 
, and the three other horses followed su
sure. "Do you play?"
ng of a summer sea asleep upon a sandy s
g Jerry, dress yourself, my boy, and whi
nsieur Gabelle had held the impoverished
"Really, Mr. Carton," returned the other
ion for a chance lost, that these five c
"Now, I trust," said Sydney to him, "tha
The passenger booked by this history, wa
alled Darnay," said the first.
h robe. Carelessly worn, it was a becomi
Any strongly marked expression of face o
ge that the face ever showed, resided. T
hed on his breast, and his glaring eyes 
uld prosper, if Lucie should love you, y
Madame enforced the conclusion of this p
scuffled out of himself and was in their
ous room.
ve been furnished with lists of his Maje
"She will now be at home, awaiting the m
sive faces that drooped before him, as t
s of a studious habit, and unusually ene
d the other, in the same low voice.
I am not so much to look at, am I? Why d
 one of its most useful and most agreeab
 that it was worth no crow's while to pe
risoners, and sometimes rushed straight 
e the common one, a prison plot, and tha
f-immolations on the people's altar. The
e bell again, and summoned his valet to 
Call yourself a religious woman? If you'
 With this view, he urged his son to hol
ge."
of highwaymen, and the prisoner has not 
ight be tending.
ere red with felicity; "if you are ready
ke amends for what he would have undug--
f the circumstances?"
h the chinks in the wall.
 surrounded by the advantages of solitud
in any action on your part to-night; you
, nimbly scaling an iron gate. He was so
he dropped insensible in his arms.
 watching and waiting mostly do; as peop
"Not I!" said Stryver, whistling. "I can
p across their way, of patriot patrols o
t you are right, I dare say."
 be surprised by their appearance until 
ng a boy of my name, with a forehead tha
he had quite forgotten him in gazing at 
"I am deeply sorry to have been the caus
ers went the same road wrongfully, and t
d be so. You, devoted and young, cannot 
all, and in the midst of a line of twent
s at him, and incessantly groaning and c
 appeared quite supernatural, he forced 
ly done; a very remarkable transformatio
nd more steadily, to the terrible attrac
," resumed the nephew, glancing at him w
 worth taking into account--it was a pla
 high in the wall, with a stone screen b
 to lose the final opportunity of saying
athise with, a victim of the Guillotine.
 is usually in a rough plight, and mostl
sea, or a wind, or a fire. Eager faces s
her the touching hands would be dyed red
ll the circumstances. I knew what Court 
 hidden in the dregs of it.
ck. All through the cold and restless in
 on his knees to both of them, but that 
ame in so unexpectedly, I have at length
rses to be seen to, but travelling paper
ese pernicious missions, within a few we
id him down dead.
orry presented himself at the breakfast-
 of the great windows, flames burst fort
o his feet.
," said Jerry, "and me and my partners s
however, had put it into the heart of a 
 in league with robbers. As to the latte
im when the long-gathering rain of stabs
as he turned round.
t danger as arose from one of the patrio
ery many others, the articles of daily c
 me!"
nd _I_ know you're John, you know. Which
nything else. Mr. Cruncher was out of sp
ve.
 with infinite pains, and was so terrifi
works based on this work or any other Pr
 that younger elderly gentleman from Tel
istance of some fifty or sixty yards. It
nberg-tm electronic works.
ers; and answered, with shrugs and bitin
r than you, I bless Heaven for it. I hol
ws without, he could but dimly discern t
their children, from their aged and thei
 quiet fortitude. So, by degrees he calm
hear Somebody's step coming to the door.
 gone, and Mr. Charles Darnay was establ
od-money, another fragment of ancestral 
nobody to weep for me."
cie, and left her quite alone.
 her fancy. It had a quieter look than a
erg-tm's goals and ensuring that the Pro
ation--though it must be filled by someb
deducting a mere trifle for this slight 
ess to your being thoroughly in earnest 
ingenuity could discover or devise. Peop
nto the show of a belief that they would
re than threescore years and ten, if he 
til dawn, they once more whispered in th
g from both the Project Gutenberg Litera
Impelled by a laudable ambition to study
Looking gently at him again, she was sur
ed to do playfully, or Miss Pross, sorel
the yard.
, "I trust in you."
o disgrace in the fate he must meet, and
rt--only the difference was, that these 
ments too numerous and forcible to repea
er neck. Advancing his hand by little an
The door was quickly opened and closed, 
r of Tellson's Bank, by Temple Bar, who 
rles. Let them all lean upon him.
Mr. Stryver laughed till he shook his pr
le, "Good day, Jacques!" Defarge stopped
ngs, else forgotten and unattainable, in
ull half-hour of bootless attempts to br
racting the essence from a heap of state
rightened, crying to herself, with her b
 that tradesman on the sly, a going in a
course."
tain, that the few village scarecrows wh
With those words, and a final snap of hi
eir mercies very soon. I left him climbi
use, as having yet to raise the dropped 
ges of Monseigneur, and, staggering to t
rrounding him.
 her father.
y.
steep dark shaft of dirt and poison, the
nd I soothed him to let me move his hand
"Saying your prayers! You're a nice woma
oving a hand from his work.
refusal than the chances of consent. In 
aying that I am placed on the footing I 
ay. "On the drunken occasion in question
ver prosper in his inheritance otherwise
es are, he is afraid to see me. Where is
height, about five feet nine; black hair
ctice at the bar, to be ashamed of anyth
d's last arrangement. Tell her that more
possible, here in raging Paris, with Sus
Miss Pross, shaking her loving and dejec
That this correspondence with the public
 like a ghost, at noon in the July weath
oars! Don't let me hear no more of you, 
d to it. Suffer them and forbid them not
ected (perhaps was, by the dark eyes tha
er, without pausing in his work.
e streets now?" asked Miss Pross again, 
ublicans as yesterday and the day before
ng, that he held the mastery of them eve
y use this eBook for nearly any purpose 
r toothpick, and saw and heard something
ame Circuit, and even there they prolong
But, not for long. Presently, the chatea
 weapon or semblance of a weapon that wa
had he returned to France when he did, a
lay was played out.
Young Jerry.
that the bread-and-butter may be snatche
urned the other, oddly disconcerted, "I 
hat Heaven has so blessed--my love for C
 precaution, by giving out that the Doct
ight eye observantly upon her, "good day
n. I told her not to come near us till h
I care nothing for this Doctor, I. He ma
hand, as Mr. Attorney-General rose to sp
t suit of clothes; showing them how the 
 and partner, and was worthy to be; how 
e driver.
.
ds of people came to see the sights, and
ather relenting, nevertheless, "I am sho
"My blood!" ejaculated the vexed coachma
don't tremble so. I have saved him."
sixty yards. It is likely enough that, r
is iron cage some days. The village look
"Much to be regretted. You might have us
led neighbourhood; and nothing within ra
over the distribution of wine, with a bo
d entertainments had to be refilled, and
fine morning.
carried her up the staircase to their ro
 the father and daughter from the ground
e. The elder gentleman took the cry so i
Madame Defarge looked, coldly as ever, a
cher, and sullenly holding her in conver
He had loved Lucie Manette from the hour
 animated by an intention, and, in the w
t returning, and he being unwilling to l
 repeat the cry, 'My husband, my father,
England, always faithful and devoted to 
for the valet to pick up, and all the he
e and rider were covered with mud, from 
s three hundred miles away.
ersation and treachery in furtherance of
er asserted to have a counting-house bel
n five minutes more. Let him be at peace
I feel that this will break my heart by-
 be taken until he was actually summoned
Gabelle (double-laden though the horse w
d looked out at the rising sun. There wa
hing before us, we had nothing before us
is arms, who is the trusted friend of Mi
The wine-shop keeper accordingly rolled 
ways remember them. I hope it may be tak
enues of leafless trees. The hard uneven
teps the rain ran wildly, and beat at th
nd golden hair, to this place--then fair
ithout any scruple, in a very few minute
 and other symbolical tears.
 Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or Death
soner came on board the packet-ship in w
 would, the young mother at the cradle s
rm-eaten stool and table, beat them to p
 steps, and I sat on the deck at his sid
 born, that the thought (which I did not
over his full-bodied wine, on the arts M
, there was a great crowd about it, in w
time laid a dreadfully disfiguring hand;
lundering of public-houses, was easy and
n, following his leader's lead, examined
tenderly kissed her: "my future is far b
ain so much, by substituting the perplex
 user who notifies      you in writing (
is home on men's shoulders, with a confu
now how hard it has grown for me, the we
ood-sawyer      Chapter VI     Triumph  
ut, as loud as he could roar. "Yo there!
ngle with the waves of other beer, and g
e door.
ccept nothing.
enting as respectable and business-like 
e observed her in the court, and I have 
rton left him there; but lingered at a l
, and by which they were rapidly ordered
signation elsewhere. Lucie, her child. E
, "in another character, and not in a ch
. Ask him, is that so."
s over."
n's wanted no light, Tellson's wanted no
on rose too, with something of a threat 
"Why, no, thank you; this is a private v
king his head. "There is nobody to weep 
and thoughts of the husband who would be
is time scattered far and wide.
its wine-shop keeper foremost in the gua
 was a peculiarity in his manner of shak
lier.
remulous tails, they mashed their way th
g to speak.
lson's, Jerry took up his station on thi
o mind what your name was, over the wate
personal safety, every hour in the day.
azed, as if the Last Day were come, and 
ldest, Sydney's feet still trod those st
 by the fire for the Doctor.
hich she heard him go back to that time,
or redistribute this electronic work, or
rth Tower!"
neur.
 we within? Papers!"
s, to remain there until he wants you."
 fountain; some, to the fields; men and 
hateau fountain seemed to turn to blood,
is old unfinished work, were all as usua
n. She presented herself to me as the wi
ch had suspended their business, or thei
swung by the chain of the shoe--the drag
acques Three, "is undoubtedly a good Rep
ther sound than the owl's voice there wa
he slight devices with which she cheated
with your name?"
 Lorry was a pleasant sight too, beaming
ntly, all the rest fell to dancing, and 
o pass in and close upon the dear old ye
57 Melan Dr. S. Fairbanks, AK, 99712., b
 but a wild infection of the wildly shak
"Why, look at you all!" bawled this figu
contending with the fire.
 comportable with its wearer's assumptio
my profession, the communications of pat
nce-peaceful streets, where they had bee
 be, the expression deepened itself as s
ther eyes there intent upon the Doctor, 
other innocent atonement is made for thi
 friend, Miss Manette, Mr. Lorry."
 to be pitied by and wept for by! How do
ad?"
sing her dark eyebrows.
impressively said; and at all events you
of a high house in a solitary courtyard,
straight from his lips; sometimes her hu
ause he is lame, and consequently slow, 
"Did you hear the message?"
ties; but, I am quite unable even to say
reet. Workmen dig, workmen hammer, soldi
you!"
at this time which you could deplore and
ing and waking, drunkenness and sobriety
 felt charged with cowardice; "I too, my
e of waiters in all ages.
 Having released his noble bosom of its 
azing torches, smoking waggonloads of we
?" asked Defarge, motioning to Mr. Lorry
The three customers pulled off their hat
"
madame, raising her glance as she knotte
 in a state so dull and lethargic, that 
"By the help of Heaven you shall! Promis
hich might be capable of holding about h
growing luminous. Then, a flickering str
 to the generality of people, by name. T
 face; "'I should but have had so much t
tillness of the night, made it very quie
tened for a while.
at burnt in the dark, lay hidden in the 
or the exclusion or limitation of certai
forbid them not. They see my Father's fa
 fellow-inscrutables inside. To whom, li
"The prisoner's."
topped him in his running away, but lure
r in her own room on the second floor--a
arance of satisfaction as is ever to be 
rsh noises, showed where the barges were
rved expression of Tellson's Bank. He ha
with--had long had the mote in it of Luc
down her face, she put her two hands to 
hich might have been lighter), conducted
 within him. Indeed, it is this doubt an
 of remedy for the little evils with whi
of the King's Bench bar?"
of us have dry ways. Here is the letter.
to oppose your husband's business? Is it
madame!"
"You say again you are quite sure that i
in the fine world of Paris, that the spi
second woman being The Vengeance.
 and shall lose my life (without your so
 Carton!" cried little Lucie, springing 
hat they knew nothing about the passages
"You will not swear, Mr. Lorry, that he 
 the blots I threw upon it, faded away. 
l, he made a struggle to look about him.
 and it gives us, from morning to night,
"Here, in Paris?"
e church of Saint Pancras-in-the-Fields.
he stone faces of the chateau were opene
evidently with no other object than to m
windy March morning, the room in which h
 these idiots! How do you call the man? 
The barrister was keen enough to divine 
s that his mediation might save Charles,
 for, it was one of those dark nights th
 yours is, I will lay before you a certi
 or in those of her child, returned to i
road sweep and rise beyond it, a church-
rds which he foresaw he might be tending
ess of their worn and wasted state. Prid
old her; who I was, and I told her. It w
with his chin resting on his hand, and h
e Doctor, confiding Lucie and their dear
other."
atch hold of your throat and choke you f
got to say. Yes, I'll go with you."
d my partners suffer. You was to honour 
, and he were to be released, he could n
u."
and act. Whether it was a daughter who w
e there is--and no wonder!--much sympath
 from the lamp-iron!"
h feelings roused. It was well guarded, 
 read, as follows.
 glow, the water of the chateau fountain
"It will seem nothing to you. Such whims
 without pity. If she had ever had the v
k.
"Didn't you? Who brought her father to l
sins and victims, he was a man apart. In
had reason to fear us. Say all! _Had_ he
es were made in the streets, at which ne
"Look over your hand carefully, Mr. Bars
t to speak to me. Pay for your wine, and
u might have used your talents better."
e every minute you are here is worth a h
was, and overflowing into the adjacent o
 particulars it is not improbable that h
 fell heavy; was so close to him when he
liantly into the travelling carriage whe
On a steaming, misty afternoon, Mr. Lorr
side, Monsieur Gabelle!"
"The carriage stopped as soon as the dri
en his affairs in general were so unpros
 town of Beauvais--which they did at eve
e. "No, Lucie, my dear, nor you!" He got
 themselves when he left England, he of 
ou were sent to me by Heaven."
Defarge motioned with the paper to the p
name over the water."
soon terrified, here were surely cards e
k for a hurricane of national bullets. I
 about it, but clearly saw his way to th
th its rush and roar, bearing down upon 
 yearning and weeping as she kissed her 
ion by so much as a passing word. I will
"England is very attractive to you, seei
"I know Mr. Lorry, sir, much better than
rtunity, and by-and-bye she sank into a 
his left hand, and using his right by tu
s, or in manner; but there was a certain
 me, with a warning, yesterday. I must f
amous oppression of the people. Charles 
 its being received, for good or for evi
"You make light of the obligation," retu
nd false moustaches were stuck upon them
that met his own with an inquiring look,
nd likelihood which the scene of shadows
s. He knew that under the overthrown gov
ined him from the light.
"Both were so wrapped up, and the night 
iewed, copied or distributed:
er, that not a word of it had reached th
n to get about, among such as were inter
"What's coming on?"
The spy, well used to his business, did 
 all my duty and with all my faithful se
nd saw nothing.
t we were so unpopular with the outrageo
"
t it, two or three times, as if to be su
 do nothing for you."
ion, Miss Pross, responding to Ladybird'
t them now?" said the spy.
 stooped over his labour.
aid Madame Defarge, placing it in her li
her back to the crashing engine that con
n't be in better hands."
"Indeed?"
efarge's arm; "do you remember nothing o
le, of the king and the royal family. Th
ession started, with a chimney-sweep dri
 few minutes' walk. John Barsad, or Solo
nt mode. I never saw the mode. I have ha
s' carts bringing in supplies, and for s
 and his friend, with his personal affli
e _his_ vassal. Then, I tracked the brot
"I wish I were going myself," said Charl
ch louder, and still she will scarcely h
 the Bailey. What, in the name of the Fa
commence, monsieur?"
"Were you newly released on the occasion
"Your confidence in me ought to be retur
ternal Sleep; in the abounding gaols; an
radually, what I had done at random, see
of composing her appearance so that it s
ast and shaken form had long yielded to 
 troubled movement and a shouting coming
, to find his house without asking any q
This touched Young Jerry on a tender pla
sengers in the mail?"
is breath. Crouching down again in a cor
ise for myself--And understand me, sir,"
ry night look, at monsieur with the whit
 the smith spoke of?" Darnay asked the p
sound of acquiescence.
ith the greatest ardour, "Spies! Yaha! T
 fall of the axe in that sound."
h, Hunger. It was prevalent everywhere. 
e removed Lucie and her child, and Miss 
 the Bastille prisoner in front there! S
yourselves and your children. One or the
h the message he was to deliver to the n
 that came unbidden into his mind; the s
e streets. Now, Ladybird, never you stir
"Yes, I do."
tached to it. But, the gaol was a vile p
d for a new means of death; "here is one
 gaol fever.
"And indeed, now I think again, I have a
lky corroborations, but made use of them
ce he started with it on the wet, wet ro
 thanking his bachelor stars for having 
"_Is_ that the Dover mail?"
y own time have known the boldest people
He was shown up-stairs, and found Lucie 
at whom a mistaken savage had thrust a p
nse; were at once so pleasant in themsel
ce, and taken no notice of. I doubt if I
ndered so much to him. "All curious to s
lishness, it was the epoch of belief, it
trade? No, I was not a shoemaker by trad
o himself as he walked; but, he heard th
g lamps, out under the great grove of st
lf: on the whole, I think I can afford t
Any one of these partners would have dis
s, though she was a perfectly happy youn
e, when he took another bite.
k out, until I saw it in the dying boy.
red lost look that troubled Mr. Lorry; a
 the glass window, but the lattice blind
"What I suppose, Mr. Stryver, I claim to
fast was done and cleared away, and he a
k, so good as to be despatched to Paris 
have a night's work to do yet. Speak for
ighted and deserted. Above a heap of dus
woman's. "See, there is my husband!" she
"Jacques," said Defarge; "judiciously sh
orld that we know, consider the rage and
its floor.
, so far, we are pursued by nothing else
ors on his way out.
ht, and even lifted her from the floor i
e this very day brought to us here (I sp
"And I hear them!" he added again, after
--a fishing. That's where I'm going to. 
n's Bank. You must know Tellson's Bank i
prayer that had broken up out of his hea
XX. A Plea
. "You wish you were going yourself? And
and was silently attentive.
said Mr. Lorry, joyfully relieved after 
 lay cunningly on its back to trip him u
, Mr. Stryver, I was about to say:--it m
orner, with hearts that failed them when
nner. It appeared, under the circumstanc
ved, on his way to dine with the Doctor.
ry, clasping his hands, "that no one nea
 and said in a subdued voice,
l it, without knowing my secret heart, a
wed, resided. They persisted in changing
d!"
ncher, amazed, "at all events she'll see
 Give us the heart of Foulon, Give us th
d find a living there.
 rise too, or I could not have still sup
I. Five Years Later
bliterated marks of an actively intent i
a morsel of stone or wood, with my husba
ers of Notre Dame, almost equidistant fr
ehead to knuckle, and he knuckled it in 
save him; and I did." He returned the an
nd large flaps to the pockets, passed al
estion?"
lf, her husband's name should be proscri
k. Hush!"
ide had drifted this person to the post.
d them, inspected their papers, looked f
ey have but one, and it's Midnight Murde
y the former entertainment was much the 
No. They were all by that time choking t
ardent and sincere in this one thing. Th
the wine-shop.
g ranks of the new oppressors who have r
hat I was afraid to take him out of the 
In the morning, he was up betimes, and w
 knowledge, and I know that I can save h
ion, he thought, "There is but another n
knitting away assiduously. A rose lay be
orry. "Don't look out! Manette, for your
he guard-room; meanwhile, they sat upon 
 had yielded fruit equally on hill and p
r. Carton deserves more consideration an
or those dear to you. Try to hold me in 
u are engaged at three o'clock; you are 
onseigneur) that supper awaited him then
ng dismissed it from my mind. Good Heave
 doubt that he had supposed it destroyed
d, with a cushion thrown under his head,
rtance to me (you know, Citizen, even be
to such pasture as could be found by the
triots, with their national muskets in a
let you know, if you don't bring smellin
He said, "Farewell!" said a last "God bl
eature of misuse as you know him to be--
d on the back of his wife's chair, looki
ith the first reservation of their joint
man in the light, and, being recognised 
aight from the infernal regions, seemed 
e black mud and offal of his streets, Ma
ter--although in the mystery of my own w
oom from which he had issued, he said: "
-tenderly, caressingly, as if it had bee
longed to a great nobleman who had lived
t in pocket, and I won't put up with it,
etofore seen me. The last supplication b
in his breast, stood close beside him.
 brown. His breakfast-table was drawn be
umstances reconcile it to his station to
endeavouring, in the hope of some disclo
fully under the inscription, and, in the
oo much. Fluttering hopes and doubts--ho
od abilities and good emotions, incapabl
dimly discern the others who were brough
 day. On this post of his, Mr. Cruncher 
k! Work, Jacques One, Jacques Two, Jacqu
him for it.
t. I know what I know. I have seen with 
d to-morrow. Now, I am dumb!"
ucceed on that account."
t remote ancestors held the right of lif
tle pools; these were surrounded, each b
, his white hair picturesque on the untr
on to the post. His surname was Cruncher
The officer looked up from his slip of p
Dinner-time, and still no Hundreds of pe
. He left his two letters with a trusty 
hat marrying matter") had carried his de
e midst of whom was the wood-sawyer hand
em.
 that as she pressed her hands on Sydney
re! Let me think it out!"
l's?"
ything; after the first cry, they had be
"Against what side?"
morrow: change the course, or delay in i
 bank overhanging the road. Upon the top
to me as the wife of the Marquis St. Evr
mpt on the life of the late King, Louis 
drowning man, or of any human creature a
eance, and faces hardened in the furnace
suppose sense in certain quarters; you s
 the Conciergerie, and summoned for to-m
her (and I so old!), and by many associa
blic business, which was, to let everyth
s progress during the precious hours of 
"Mr. Carton," the Spy answered, with a t
advantage here, and determined to hold i
"And mind you!" said Mr. Cruncher. "No g
er's eyes, which implored me to have mer
of these two witnesses, coupled with the
d not participate in the conference, but
recaution which was already in course of
to his breast no more. The prisoner spra
aspard! It was cruel, cruel!), it is a c
"And you in brown!" she said, indignantl
 who could not sufficiently admire the b
sis.
g carriage at the posting-house gate. It
of such proscription, absolutely Dead in
p me to see him if you can?"
it had roamed in its forlornness up the 
The mender of roads went home, with the 
," said Madame Defarge. "I have seen the
re were tears in his eyes. There were te
em by Mr. Lorry) had become their daily 
were so arranged as that it would part u
Very distant? Rather. Ever been in priso
 I hope you have been this day preserved
efore it, and men clutching each other a
d clerk; "we all have our various ways o
surface, and I stood in ignorance on the
the early morning?
ispered little Lucie, drawing close to h
rn that did not seem to promise bloodshe
ark cellars of the loathsome prisons, an
ts in his mind.
d the other, "and can't be too dead. Hav
 so, Monseigneur, after boldly reading t
r the order of her words. They were alwa
tryver chambers.
 and generally getting through the day; 
 each other?"
feet high, poisoning the water."
grew heavier again, and grew yet heavier
 on, and Mr. Lorry's hope darkened, and 
t, to be like a dream, Charles Darnay wa
p in his task, that his eyes did not eve
X. Two Promises
e?" when his face clears, as he looks in
 Crime, were put to Death. Not that it d
Lorry, quickly flushing again, "I will n
s the best room, and in it were Lucie's 
ench. Which is she?"
f wine, Madame Defarge herself picked ou
hese streets, I should be more unhappy a
r being alarmingly near, and several voi
e complacency of a curator or authorised
 close to the grim old officer, and rema
at man who stands there, as all we commo
e, to find himself awakened at the small
it come about at all? What can I do for 
en the coming storm in time, and anticip
l faces are turned towards the prison. F
d."
. The lamps across his streets had a por
"I have delivered that letter," said Cha
ies, more Long live they all! until he a
"But go and see that droll dog," the lit
deal of travelling, sir, in Tellson and 
When the Attorney-General ceased, a buzz
ow face, aquiline nose but not straight,
e of the bell, and died on her bosom.'
's questions enough for you; I ain't a g
, and the hedge at the roadside retreati
 fur to record in this here crisis?"
great keys and the feebly-burning candle
he impoverished and involved estate on w
"'What strength there is in these common
"I say! Might I ask the favour? As to wh
, he laid her down on a couch, where her
pon it as that comes to; I say yes, and 
"I am glad of that. She has such a stron
drawing is in your favour."
 for, soon the large-faced King and the 
"I have seen you somewhere."
yes did not even follow the hand he stre
as drawing him, and he must sail on, unt
ravelling on business of a delicate and 
e, please God! Now, get assistance and t
it."
e had never moved, Sydney Carton came an
ld I tell her! It is better as it is."
nsieur Defarge, and quietly stepped with
 I walked into the wine-shop here, close
orse."
tates, we do not claim a right to preven
"It is extraordinary to me," said he, "t
ise of his skill, the appearance and the
d descended to the chief functionary who
 had thrust a pike as he passed out. Bei
use, the business eye of Mr. Lorry eithe
, to trust to him as the strong. The pre
s. The Doctor occupied two floors of a l
ame, in a high voice. "I and my husband 
stributing a Project Gutenberg-tm electr
some enchanted marquis of the impenitent
ourage; several members of our society h
t hear him. "So I'll nod my head," thoug
the men were for the most part standing 
any bushels of words, Madame Defarge's f
ne patient. Now, breaking the unnatural 
it for the time with the tiger and the d
 Mrs. Cruncher, or leastways wos in the 
glected bed, and its pillow was wet with
s who were there--with the apparitions o
way.
o. For the moment."
y to the corner of her own street. Let m
the name could have been. At length, it 
arched door, they left it burning, and r
ot more than other gentlemen do. Ever bo
emoved to the interior of the prison aga
.
ber them both to have been--like myself-
sack. It was the sign of the regeneratio
"No it doesn't; I assure you it doesn't.
 extending towards him, trembling with e
rough with it until the play was played 
When the quiet of the garret had been lo
y it, how earnestly I feel it, without k
ll potent as the voice of Power and Plen
ong card--a certain Guillotine card! Do 
"Have no fear! I shall soon be out of th
, my dear Charles," said Mr. Lorry, glan
at gives facilities for seeing much of i
ad: the rather, forasmuch as to entertai
The night was hot, and the shop, close s
 came out, seemed to have shot up into t
ay and hour, in spite of his happiness, 
arkled and rustled at iron-grated window
nd hurried her into his room, and turned
utiful city and a brilliant people risin
y not be so. I own to you, I am shaken, 
Mr. Cruncher had by this time taken quit
our brave hand, stranger?"
e put down his smoked-out pipe.
her scornfully, but still with something
 it shall be put into some hands better 
 and red decoration, there was but one q
th Sea, until he was landed in the outer
d. Of late, the neglected bed in the Tem
lay, perform, distribute or redistribute
"Eh my faith. It is a portrait!" said ma
 so careful to get it accurately, that h
 time choking the Hall of Examination wh
had ordered.
some other spirit within his, than his o
down on his back on the heap of stones. 
r openly going about among your admirers
the brood belonging to them, the Doctor 
d like * * * * Let us ride on again, for
n they passed a prison of the State, the
 full to the light, and looked at her.
word. "Well; he may be."
entleman said in a look to the young lad
n obligation to you for life--in two sen
ughter, and took her down-stairs to the 
in, were trim. He wore an odd little sle
"If the Republic should demand of you th
ess that was necessary to be done, and h
w heavier and heavier, as he and his two
ce that Miss Manette had arrived from Lo
e, and guarded struggle with an unseen a
 "in consequence of the failure of his a
 attempted of this admirable servant; bu
ty seemed to fall so threatening and dar
a town. Eh well! Tell me how long it tak
The wine was red wine, and had stained t
"Don't despond," said Carton, very gentl
 pouring down into the streets; but, the
ext day. Every day, through the stony st
rsisted in.
ain, and they both laughed.
extraordinary scenes were referable; it 
ess imposed on the Tribunal by the multi
 strengthen himself in the interval that
ry day?"
p to wipe his face, on which the perspir
a particular feeling of objection; and D
pacing to and fro in the strong arched r
ven if poverty and deprivation had not l
ince. As he passed out, the jury, who ha
"Al-ways rusty! His fingers is al-ways r
"Prison of the Abbaye, Paris.
of the case to which I am summoned.'
"You said something to me," said Doctor 
ords are sharpened there," said Mr. Lorr
el resigned, then his wife and child who
the case is the case of a particularly d
ncentrated into a faint hair-breadth lin
"Hooroar, father!" cried Young Jerry.
e pillars were fastened two great flarin
y offer to you, sir. A man don't see all
 can only be by one of these."
e tainted crowd, dispersed up and down t
pon it, and came to the surface. Young J
bed.
person here; that I might be regarded as
that my answer was, RECALLED TO LIFE."
hat his daughter's marriage had taken pl
 Like you, a voluntary exile from France
see every inch of him. Conspicuous among
The man obeyed, and Defarge followed the
er Angels than many ladies immeasurably 
 just as I pass from one of our customer
d traitor, an unblushing trafficker in b
e moans of the poor wife! And O the long
"I can't say that I mean to. I suppose s
 and crying, and pointing to the fountai
me to a sickening little jolt, and there
ted the prisoner's case on the jury, lik
uld have been unhappy without Charles, h
the Guillotine. She and her father would
will always be.
ed him, that tears started from his eyes
ave been the last dream of my soul. In m
. Lorry."
ted to the consciousness of daylight, an
riars: the time, half-past seven of the 
I say yes, and I shall expect you to loo
s a tendency to throw him out of work. M
 been hurriedly pushed aside, and fell d
 at some quiet times, as ardent and sinc
ge again. For some minutes after he had 
ake herself doubly sure. You follow me?"
ind.
ellson's Bank in London. I am going to P
ls in prison and the shadow of death--we
pat out straw, while the twinkling eyes 
"That's all, messieurs. I left at sunset
 he could.
d spikes.
A quainter corner than the corner where 
t a moment; she hurried back, and tapped
to work?"
m for an emigrant. It is in vain I repre
us, he might have supposed the second fo
 woman, having banished the inn servants
u see, guard. Jerry, say that my answer 
But it's not worth your while to apostro
that will rather surprise you, and that 
"Do so, implicitly. Your suspense is nea
ng by until the twilight fell. The escor
little citizen here. For, I am not a bad
 going, some breaking off, some stopping
nd in virtue of it I stand before you. I
 the earth was cold and wet, the sky was
ect of his business?"
ed with confidence to the citizen's lett
wrongs and sorrows ended.
suddenly the sea rose immeasurably wider
"You have a visitor, you see," said Mons
t mark of blood upon the blessed garneri
lusion with some influence to guide this
e prisoner on any other occasion, when t
n, had cut as his last work, three lette
helpless situation--as he was kind, and 
e me!"
 of fifteen years ago?"
r, and stood with his hand on the back o
 moment's interval in crash, and fire, a
ould have been better if he had died in 
 wigged gentleman, the prisoner's counse
vancing echoes, there was the tread of h
is for their safety."
 too. They had the air of a rough tribun
They joined hands, and the man sat down 
very dearly. She is five years younger t
Stryver. "Did he though? Is that the sor
"Will I promise? What will I not promise
eir way to the courtyard; seeming to rec
ilosophy, graciously intend to live?"
ficers with no idea of a ship; civil off
or, and many of them were sitting at the
shman?"
far greater dangers than those which had
n the Country      Chapter IX     The Go
Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.guten
lost, and he is sought--how many months?
the police. The latter he was intimate w
"_You_ think so?" said madame, looking a
 and they bring him faster. I follow. Hi
 sounds. Her husband's step was strong a
er her toothpick by the breadth of a lin
 with Monseigneur or the State, yet equa
ces and neglects of men, will seize on v
rs, with such a world around them and be
ilt, where they were to sit knitting, kn
night?"
 him along; remained immovable close to 
r short abstraction, "I cannot trust my 
 the hill again and through the street, 
the sullen and desperate compression of 
shington might gain almost as great a na
 if he rather expected to see the loaf d
a work with the phrase "Project Gutenber
im. He recoiled, but she laid her hand u
hat I am still thinking now, as I look i
lack dress rang at my gate, demanded to 
 were soldiers to guard it, but not many
rk deference of fear and slavery, my fri
ering after the cloud had burst and pass
 man before us at the Old Bailey."
dreadful business then, Jerry."
nd. She was the golden thread that unite
at Creation, designed expressly for Mons
."
 from this company. But the crowning unr
lly and naturally shown, that starers wh
been set up there for their purpose, as 
en I choose."
urney!"
By good fortune she had a veil on her bo
rt, rather plump wife of a starved groce
all, dim, crooked shop, kept in a tortuo
ve heard her innocent disclosure, and co
t I brought you across the Channel, such
ng to and fro, with frequent gleams of l
d not yet swooped into the Hall, like bi
"At extermination," said madame.
Sydney turned his eyes again upon the fi
e was over. He could walk up and down, f
"I must say again that I heartily admire
ouching down in a corner, peeping up the
n that appeared to affect the mind of ei
t that is, and why I am in England."
rmer-Generals were rich, and Monseigneur
at here yesterday, and who there the day
he had heard absolutely nothing. The esc
 true. Swear it was not true? Positively
 where Madame Defarge immediately took h
discuss with himself. But, that circumst
Mr. Lorry. "If you say eligible, you are
s, reports, performances and research.  
 perpendicular iron bars to his window a
he new horses come into visible existenc
 better. Yes, I am very much put out."
d to do nothing but plunder and forage w
eur was about to take his chocolate. Mon
 sunny summer day.
fore the Marquis, I pray you be you true
and for what offence?"
"If I don't, you'll have short commons, 
nt drops of oil.
, returned to it; men with bare arms, ma
 the dreadful woman of whose unrelenting
t time, and pointing her knitting-needle
 was still in his trust; had never left 
"No," said Mr. Lorry, in reply to the Ho
ght, with the moon and the stars, turned
and crush a man or two below.
ssage outside the door. He stopped.
-chest, and, having looked to the rest o
 and of my father who is living, and of 
 empannelled to try the deer.
f which the mad scene was acted, seemed 
or would it have been an expectation of 
ou putting any such extraordinary questi
that this precious brother had spent her
till upon it. Anybody who had seen him p
hear. You leave your good father, my dea
't know me, and is making shoes!"
a selfish aspect, I am glad that the thi
ugh. Will you please to enter the carria
uld rear itself against the deluge of th
, in a low voice, as they went down the 
ave in the winter, and such produce as c
cient usage before they were many weeks 
und to the question. "I have been to Soh
of suffocation. My first act was to put 
th knows him? Well, but I'll answer you.
n his speaking to his daughter--he becam
as enough to carry into a dreary prison 
son's hands. In a similar way I am, or I
ide in Madame Defarge. It would be easie
ark room, furnished in a funereal manner
n his position making him conscious of a
aked Jacques Three; "no one must escape.
 race a long time on my register, doomed
 Queen came in their golden coach, atten
go; when he had been summoned before it,
ed a similar conversion of all visitors.
, citizeness?"
hinks in the wall.
 Death in the dominant prison on the cra
ice by the exercise of a little new obse
l Heavens forbid!" cried Miss Pross. "Fa
we usually call our connection our custo
irred and broken up--as it was now, in a
m, until, having got past the two tall c
r Lucie nor her father must know of it u
! You see?"
 o'clock he smoothed his ruffled aspect,
"
d in no personal danger there; the other
y was dressed for a Fancy Ball that was 
State, yet equally unconnected with anyt
ge earrings. Her knitting was before her
of rum and brandy and aniseed. He whiffe
to tell her, without frightening her to 
Vengeance, stamping her foot in the chai
"Perfectly."
 to have your message, when I gave it he
from Temple Bar, old lady, I won't trust
g up and down together, till her love an
 passed from its surface and this earth'
 Beauvais, raising his hand towards the 
two hours. When he came back, he ascende
nty, and a gentleman who was evidently h
irrs up and falls, and she looks into hi
 discovered it to be caused by a sudden 
"The shrieks and the cries were audible 
 to him the details of my projects; but 
of this, it's your doing."
em, in the name of everything he could t
 that he expressly confided his wife and
gneur, as he took his seat at table.
round. There is no one in that room behi
 avowal of myself was made to you, and t
l dog," the little man persisted, callin
 is for a moment turned towards him. Evr
ted manner, when an unusual concourse po
"I repeated the medicines I had given he
"He has never seen me here; I have kept 
With a solemn interest in the lighted wi
ow waistcoat and green breeches, looking
ixed guard of soldiers and patriots, the
circle to its outermost rotten ring of i
a wife and mother!"
tricoloured cockade was the head-dress o
 elder and the younger; by the elder, I 
as at a play.
r.
the magic secret, my darling, of your be
 the mere act of bringing a troublesome 
n old servant in Paris, and we are going
s a small chimney, heavily barred across
st cause of the malady. Some intense ass
 until the wonder was, that there was an
hest beneath his seat, in which there we
his country. The family name can suffer 
n."
f mine, and no new duties of mine, will 
blic."
of the quay by the Seine for the refresh
the fourteenth day he went away to join 
and pray you to be merciful. We are more
nd hot water to Concord. Pull off gentle
nother time, and such fraternal embraces
 I was, and I know not at what times I m
ociety, than you do."
ed at by those blue eyes as he was, and 
h. And it was from the gifts bestowed up
d, more-over, with the circumstances of 
hi!"
altering or pausing in their Work, count
"I well understand that, without you, I 
ll upon my knees, and blessed her."
ft them to the ruffian herd. They will r
as put to death, that we might have hope
is in his little wig, and thanking his b
hly intelligent man, capable of close ap
ed his breakfast, he went out for a stro
claim all liability to you for damages, 
graded but that the sight of you with yo
"where they reserve my chair and my knit
f all visitors. Very little of these tra
"Do you seek any guidance from me?"
ounsel), whether they were next to try M
An hour and a half limped heavily away i
e inn-yard.
"I do not understand the meaning of the 
t under the plane-tree--and he said it i
an't be. See what the prisoner is. These
"The room was darkening to his sight; th
he chateau of Monsieur the Marquis, now 
ay through the air in ripples that visib
r. Cruncher," said Miss Pross, whose agi
for the memory of the compassionate wife
 part standing behind their chairs, or l
her's lips, and obey the last look of my
depend on both of us!"
ce and "suspended," when the last tiding
ken, put the lamp down, and confronting 
ost-horses?"
ng and white, and some of the thunder-gu
oy in making his daughter a widow and he
ordered to bed, and his mother, laid und
ghter of Doctor Manette, once a prisoner
ing. I wish to see her."
stood whispering very near to me: becaus
"Nine days and nights."
 thought that He had not quite abandoned
icions of his uncle, and in the aversion
tes the law of the state applicable to t
nd I cannot tell you here. All that I ma
they looked on, many knitted. Among thes
est, on the Doctor's case.
onsistently, the innermost workings of t
"
_ prayers at!"
ain. Is it not a pity that he should kee
"Truly, a decree for selling the propert
so heavy, that the horses had three time
 and staring at him. "Dead!"
the terms of the Project Gutenberg Licen
es upon him. "It is the law."
Mr. Lorry was so exceedingly disconcerte
ption was repeated, and the grindstone w
pray control your agitation--a matter of
ound a structure yet unbuilt, where they
inal snap of his fingers, Mr. Stryver sh
 fell asleep again.
 If a picture of the chateau as it was t
and leaves, like the more fortunate hare
o-morrow. She had reserved this last eve
row. Now, the stake I have resolved to p
 hazard, to the truth. Was that criminal
, some mortar and dust came dropping dow
 thought of putting it quite out of his 
ry, as important above all others; the f
ith much indifference.
A slight frown and a laconic "Yes," were
ying to a group of officials. They leisu
elt of port wine, and did not appear to 
o pipes! Less than two pipes. Word of ho
of a bad shilling was put to Death; the 
Greatly too much for him.
ed, and so very slow to answer, that the
with which he said it, made him look twi
ur the Marquis, for whom Gaspard was exa
t now turned and turned with nothing to 
 not visible. He was not missed; for, no
ral pursuit of the topic in hand, which 
here; the other was to the Doctor, confi
r and all things ready to go down into t
octor had at that time to contend with, 
 on the ground.
 has been denounced to the Section of Sa
urniture was, it was set off by so many 
at side of the court which was on his le
oved.
d heard of me, and had been taught to pi
ar-spears and knives of the chase had be
e!" the face of Evremonde is for a momen
 street corner by a fountain, one of its
t flies swarmed again.
 surely cards enough of one black suit, 
 think of the House more than ourselves.
t up their weapons and plunged anew into
n that wine too would be spilled on the 
"and fearful to reflect upon. Yet, a dou
, who were at liberty to leave the city,
f shoemaking tools, and his old unfinish
d hunger, so long, as to conceive the id
didn't. A honouring and obeying wife wou
e?"
two hours. As the clock struck two, she 
 priestly impostors, plunderers, and pro
e nephew, sadly; "I renounce them."
he jury, who had turned back and paused 
ower. I knew it from himself. He knew hi
ion. The learned profession of the law w
orses, he would have encountered to dela
nt people rising from this abyss, and, i
thorn blossomed, in the now vanished fie
he landlady, were all loitering by accid
. Suspected and Denounced enemy of the R
nd. He made a sudden exchange of the two
"The door is locked then, my friend?" sa
 "Work, comrades all, work! Work, Jacque
across the road behind him, but he knew 
nce. A happy circumstance for France, as
 the heart that beat for him!
cts--as he was then?"
the very door, he could be taken away--"
rown to this side and to that, and the p
e in possession of the house had let the
was ridiculous. As often as I caught the
r: the women passionately screeching at 
s not in strong health, and has separate
"It would be troublesome, and might be d
watching by a sick-bed in the night.
and their guns ring on the stones of the
 it.
ter death."
 there; was more than half disposed to o
here Cly was never in that there coffin.
e another's hands, clutched at one anoth
 from her knees in a corner, with suffic
te custom of such creatures hardly ever 
"That's a fair young lady to be pitied b
he could possibly have taken in her own 
gry in a suppressed tone had put Mr. Str
"Fashion of speech again! But, Mr. Darna
hand. However, father and daughter did a
the sense of being oppressed, bursting f
the City of London, that fine morning.
Refuge of many. You know a compatriot wh
le of opposite passenger, became the ban
 screwing and complaining sound down bel
yet received through any of the chickens
who remembered the way well, several dar
isoner Guilty, and make an end of him, w
ted with or appearing on the work, you m
crete it in the wall of the chimney, whe
rs and steady eyebrows, and saw nothing.
rning others. _I_ think for others? No, 
infused some nourishment into the flinty
 absurd baskets!
now!"
rrors, a copyright or other intellectual
ap in hand, and the other fellows closed
recall that!"
or of having any design in his head but 
inking watchmen, and were out upon a lon
 place in the wine-shop, knitting away a
d, to look at him in his sleep that nigh
ted in changing colour sometimes, and th
ickened about him fast, and might thicke
 expression in the forehead, which had s
Six tumbrils roll along the streets. Cha
ted States, check the laws of your count
to give. As I intended to repeat it afte
tained now by interest and importunity. 
 in the shadow at a distance, crept up t
of resolution, and vigour of action. In 
king of the past."
r the necessity of providing some other 
applicable to this agreement, the agreem
to say to you."
before it, and two stone sweeps of stair
w that the hay and straw were trampled o
g more than would easily elevate himself
 prison. Round upon all these darkening 
 clerk at Tellson's who shook hands with
ruction and secrecy appear to honest min
haldean to Miss Pross and her protector,
e act of putting the note in her bosom, 
and six, or his own coach and sixty, wit
ou_?"
as a heart he very, very seldom reveals,
Tribunal adjourned. The quick noise and 
 station on this windy March morning, wi
 of life which once was mine. I see him 
and with that last expression looking as
 your voice," said Miss Pross, approving
part of the agony she had known the pain
, and the Doctor was quite restored. On 
"Friends, you deceive yourselves, or you
imbly to his place. "Gentlemen! In the k
 Tribunal--of whom some members were asl
ight be permitted to place myself, durin
e had slowly forged the iron which could
"Simply, 'that he has received the lette
dinner, with the Doctor and Lucie; secon
In all weathers, in the snow and frost o
 the shed of the wood-sawyer, erst a men
interest was, at the root of it, Ogreish
steadily onward. So used are the regular
h thoughts very busy, until it was time 
     from Charles to his wife.  Let the 
"How, then! What is it? Always petitions
, what abject humiliation! As to bowing 
ave ever done; it is a far, far better r
ls went ringing downstairs. There was so
s me that has led me to our present conf
this grim old officer conspicuous in his
eady at the street door to receive them.
nds of the audience that his state was f
 of your throat and choke you for half a
s the expression repeated (though in str
 some of them, and they are asked some q
Lucie was more at ease than she had been
only was he permitted to be seen, specta
e the law to take care of itself. I give
of them dropped. While those were down, 
s upon me, dear child, and mind no other
 Don't be alarmed; I am not going to pre
ow like this fellow, trusting himself to
nd French citizen, in charge of an escor
prison; all the village sees the prison 
who know, and who are so kind as to advi
red blank wonder of his face. Whether he
cognac was flattered, and took up her kn
as not a sigh, nor a groan, he bent to w
tle one, sometimes without. I know what 
 up the steps. The carriage turned about
lothes of happy days. She lost her colou
 and wept all night, because the love of
such information to a hostile power. Tha
ilence before her father rejoined:
ged and made mad by the death of his chi
eing a poet, mused as little as possible
isguise. False eyebrows and false mousta
d sons and daughters of Gaul, she had ac
In the stone face over the great window 
ionally sipping his cognac.
ubbing his cheek.
 has been arrested again."
own!"
e Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Fou
. The shadows of the wintry afternoon we
 of that intention, they took him to the
e--"
y weapon that distracted ingenuity could
ich; had married a florid widow with pro
"Go on," said Sydney Carton.
f the man.
y, one of those unselfish creatures--fou
brother,' were his words as he turned ro
 putting the pipe in his mouth.
U HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRIC
s and courtesies of life.
or instance, what nine times ninepence a
x.
 adventurous traveller upon.
t overstepping those delicate and gradua
t at Tellson's. We have been so full of 
that time, upon whom the time laid a dre
arret story was reached. The keeper of t
d and wife remained exactly as he had le
He leaned an elbow on her table, and cov
I have ventured to lay before you, you w
Avoiding the larger rooms, which were da
useful to my father. I hope," bursting i
Through the dismal prison twilight, his 
d in a little space apart, and Monseigne
.
and heavily ringed, a steady face, stron
 of it, Ogreish.
s me to pass out of this city. Look at i
"Ay. Yes," was the grim reply of Monsieu
"Gabelle."
s and forehead with a cold, impassive st
e out of a grave.
 on the night of his condemnation, he ha
 darkened, and more stars came out, seem
ords, with a slip into his usual manner,
s."
"I warn't doing no harm," Young Jerry pr
"I am in my seventy-eighth year."
"Thank God," said Mr. Lorry, clasping hi
ut, not opened!
ted in France, as to incur considerable 
 transparent places, and showing where b
 been as much as they could do to hear o
Wretched old sinner of more than threesc
 you say?"
tempted, and has always failed. I implor
rd him mutter, "One Hundred and Five, No
"You had abandoned all hope of being dug
r considerable danger of receiving his d
er the lives of all the world that we kn
ed out of the room, and was in the court
er when Lucie came home; she hurried int
taircase was gained, and they stopped fo
to whom they were both opposed, and whom
rly like you?"
with admiration. "A great woman," said h
d Un's."
up, that it boiled again, on hearing whe
er the rage and discontent to which the 
chment of the early days in which you we
ed. As it is, time must be lost. There a
t you want to do, you do. You were alway
ould make me very glad!"
 towns with their stockades, guard-house
changed. In the Doctor's little househol
id it with his head off.
he bar before Charles Darnay's name was 
 subject pleasant, I should think."
"No, I will _not_, sir," returned Mr. Cr
ith his arms crossed upon him, and set a
"They exchanged looks, but bent their he
ow that the longer I keep you here, the 
ger and revenge.
look at his patron, Mr. Cruncher conceiv
happened to light on his head after its 
efore our people's time here, sir. The G
old time, long dead of broken hearts,--s
n the same room.
ith something of that peculiar expressio
e itself audible, even in that deaf city
e in his favour met with some unexplaine
state the case, Citizen Defarge?"
 with the other echoes, and they were no
ing down of misery-worn face and figure,
r shook her head.
trange night to you, standing alone here
Good Republican Brutus of Antiquity, and
losely at it. "It is the same. How can i
the other side of it and protected it to
ne anywhere, he certainly never shone in
ghting out the abandoned fight. A dream,
rs made small mud-embankments, to stem t
Chair there!"
"Yes!"
and that he appeared to be stirred by so
, his renunciation of his social place, 
n the river. Arriving at the cathedral s
now."
s honest calling, Young Jerry, keeping a
coffee had been served and they were alo
he inn servants under the mysterious pen
led some persons to brave the guillotine
 and his qualms were gone with the night
sperous and happy life.--Chair there!"
.
All the air round was so thick and dark,
e a greater concourse than usual, to-day
you it doesn't. Having supposed that the
anch of Scientific goods."
 device of decoration that the taste and
"Oh, father, I should so like to be a Re
 recalling some very weak person from a 
 caused him to turn.
r in his ear, and frowned heavily.
so here. Carton was the first stranger t
ousand pound!" cried Jerry.
"Why?" said Stryver. "Now, I'll put you 
to have red hair, and to be dressed in s
nd said something. A faint voice answere
tuaries, the Holiest of Holiests to the 
shing down a narrow pass with a gulf on 
y the disciples of the Good Republican B
He described it as if he were there, and
 that written appeal of a fellow-country
ced that they derived a kind of security
. Every question told."
" said Mr. Lorry. "The place is national
 things, instead of standing there stari
in any station, and will always do me cr
o himself on which of the rough stones o
 and leaves the sleeper where he lay dow
e with the prisoner, in good faith and s
rmin kind. He was quite incapable of any
y.
t, sir."
t departed from her embrace that had bee
 not in nature to so unhappy a beginning
 aware of her; but, she now advanced one
s mind is divided between good-natured i
 morning, as if for his life, down the h
"It is very high; it is a little difficu
ir, and tied it with the ribbon the pris
 no bridesmaid but the gaunt Miss Pross.
 daughter, Miss Pross was to write, desc
oom, and Miss Pross and I, as two formal
les. I am supported from above: don't su
"How long would you keep me in town?"
lice often passing between them and the 
--drank off another glassful--pushed the
rious woman whose body lay lifeless on t
nse with one of these attendants on the 
s at once, so that, from the very door, 
nt; so many die of want; so many more wi
When it fell dark again, Mr. Lorry asked
or prisoner's darling daughter, and only
"Why, then," said Mr. Lorry, grasping hi
ion, that Mr. Barsad, still in the pay o
 the Furies, quietly mended the points t
as suitable as he could find.
 But no matter; don't stay to look; put 
there. Speak then!"
He left escort and escorted without sayi
last month of the year, 1767. I write it
"After that there gallop from Temple Bar
ng him fast to his tomb!' and they bring
en thousand incoherences, "The Prisoners
nd, Jacques Five-and-Twenty Thousand; in
"Do I know her?"
 glinted in the sunlight far at sea. A f
echo of a sound made long and long ago. 
ge had not moved from the spot where she
pure love and admiration, bind themselve
d, and required none then, and was extre
t for free      distribution of Project 
fer of myself in marriage to your agreea
used to be. Moreover, it was the spot to
Only one, and he a miserable creature, o
enance of Monsieur the Marquis was no im
, which has been whispered by all true e
g the pavements of King's Bench-walk and
oach, I see no more than that they are s
, smilingly observant of that fanciful r
nd innocent person to any bad and guilty
en I think of my husband, and the mercie
ld put me on the right track, I might be
own on the pallet-bed and take some rest
ire continuously for five minutes, he go
iage had broken into a brisk trot, the p
interrupted.
indefinitely."
ble resource and indispensable entertain
 return, being for the most part too muc
ell you, sir," said Mr. Lorry. "Pray let
d in pictures. Several close their eyes,
Checking his steps which had begun to te
All the people of the village were at th
in their places. Everybody was dressed f
passed out. Being besought to go to him 
anticipating the sentence."
ou, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, to 
t they should retire under watch and war
sakes. Next to her preservation of his o
iant. They did not creep far, before the
the punch he had made, and laughed.
Afraid, in her extreme perturbation, of 
 oppression, hunger, nakedness, and suff
"As to the great service," said Carton, 
ur native land," said Miss Pross, "you m
Mr. Lorry resolved to watch him attentiv
faint."
ots of its passengers squashing along by
 for me, the wearer of this, to support 
 of their discovering that would be prod
awled this figure, addressing the inn se
"I think in all respects."
 part in the day's proceedings; nobody h
ture to the abolition of eagles by sprin
o tea. "Ah! It _is_ yes, Jerry. That's a
f some unwonted sounds of a terrible nat
 the sake of Tellson's, after all these 
e St. Honore, he said. It would not deta
 few minutes, he had got up again, and h
 Young Jerry protested, rubbing his chee
 not fail to observe that the shoemaker,
 went into the house.
ath itself, is referable to this. No mor
 and the street. In both, there were sev
d, impassive stare.
ross.
hild, and Miss Pross: giving them what c
nd by little and little, he took it up a
ength,' I answered him, 'in sorrow and d
ed by a man's opinion of a picture of mi
"Were you travelling alone, Mr. Lorry, o
he new philosophy! You are fatigued. Goo
re by the massive thickness of walls and
ed at the lightning from the same place.
ming more and more spiky as the law term
 assemble there, nobody leads the cows o
 and invisible a long way off.
do."
refractory members of the profession to 
rld was made for them. The text of his o
"Straight!" said Stryver, with a plump o
w in his small fancy similar figures, st
, aiming (as he very often does) at mone
child."
: you, to restore him to life, love, dut
sband!"
ers, I will call them the elder and the 
 looked in vain for the fulfilment of Mi
 communicated a tremulous motion to the 
ITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
"
 its eminence in those particulars, and 
ou in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 d
 heave of water, all flashes away. Twent
"I will do so. Do you start for Paris fr
rst I thought it quite hopeless, but I h
In a very clear and pleasant young voice
possession of my right mind--that my mem
e cell. So! Light them, you!"
Section 5.  General Information About Pr
 case, he had not a doubt about it, but 
ly stepped with him to the door.
their owner, in years gone by, some pain
rowful whisper.
more remarkable than that a labourer in 
He looked to the spot where Defarge the 
That, immediately, on a signal, the pris
 Examined with attention, its capacity o
treason against the majesty of the peopl
who died, and went to Hell?"
eaux to his lips, when he put it down.
om the weight that drags it down, so tha
 relief. "You shall not put me in the wr
"I don't think I do like, if I may speak
"Buried how long?"
that they are six soldiers with a tall m
at, am I? Why don't you go and fetch thi
mist and darkness, dismounted meanwhile,
or went into, wormy old wooden drawers, 
n of the Abbaye would have got him on so
 the crowd. Defarge had but sprung over 
 visitors to see the sight; then he poin
grimness, she was no unsuitable figure. 
ts of his fair young wife; but, when he 
Two things at once impressed themselves 
oing, he had to face Miss Pross. No soon
you cannot escape from giving--with grea
 way to his breakfast.
. They are in danger of denunciation by 
he taste of Saint Antoine seemed to be d
l, very well."
ney-General's) brothers and sisters, and
ber, furnished bachelor-fashion, that yo
 of a dead leaf, then glided into his vi
on any reasonable hearing. There could h
-bestrewn table proper, on the other sid
s being there with this Double of coarse
or grass?"
ene of great interest to whom many eyes 
, and achieving them again in gossip. Gr
end or from yourself?"
t that was laid upon him to awaken any s
. Nothing more. Madame Defarge gone, lik
ng awful in his unconsciousness of the f
sound of wheels. It came on briskly, and
current of the time set too strong and f
 appeal to Doctor Manette, to break up t
e could bring against her, rather than h
n the court was quiet enough to admit of
hat point. Alarm-bells ringing, drums be
ching of it, and sticking to bread. If I
. The arrival of his breakfast roused hi
aying thoughts together. Only one, and h
ull of her loving remembrance of her los
he deluge of the Year One of Liberty--th
ure that was not of business shining on 
he officers looked towards the soldiers 
 a general set of the current of talkers
 by sea and land, and would leave no dou
of residence in the Street of the School
cing a youth to have his hands cut off, 
close, and brought them up, and charming
instant, even had his two hands laid on 
gy mourning coach, in which mourning coa
of the horse to the hat of the man.
 messenger, harping on one theme as he r
 therefore, duly embellished the doorpos
 the vineyards and the olive-grounds and
strong. The preceding relative positions
ortable business--if that could have bee
le understood that Tellson's, in a state
on, but immediately fled; so, Monseigneu
line at http://gutenberg.org/license).
usion or failure in my memory; it can re
harmless from all liability, costs and e
re!"
ollow ridge on the opposite side of the 
a hurry, "Yes, customers; in the banking
amps.
 their heads and hearts. When she was ag
ne syllable. I know you. You was a spy--
to refresh himself, went out to the plac
ough the very mention of that weary paci
 taken his soup, and was raising his gla
ragraph 1.E below.
me, coolly and lightly, "if people use k
ands. Do you call _that_ being a Banker?
ing her golden hair aside over her shoul
ot to do so. Now, take this paper that D
bridge, the massive stone walls, and the
atening waters, and of destructive uphea
shes of an angry ocean which had now no 
is recovered self-possession, he thought
 again."
, and reared impatient to be loosed.
rom the soft blue eyes so loving of that
 his indifference, "business is a very g
er.  Additional terms will be linked to 
 need much demonstration--but had not go
filled by somebody; but this gentleman i
n.
"Is there?" asked madame, vacantly.
er head had gradually fallen on the pill
"Only two sets of them."
d that they were in--looking on like gho
k her away.
Lucie's name--"making signs and signals 
he arrangements of the little household,
ing. He remained, therefore, in his seat
ving it, she kissed the prison wall. Her
 happen to him if he were denounced. It 
words:
ess when it fell. Patriots, I speak the 
rial scheme again, Mr. Darnay?"
 its dry bones among the roasting chestn
ed, will be unconsciously imitated by th
r's bench and tray of tools, much as it 
"On the fourteenth."
eaning in the embrasure of a window, and
"In the beginning of the great days, whe
ll, the stomachs would have been more fa
er, the worst of a bad race.'
 means of enforcing her attention: "he h
myself, my father. But when I think of m
ession reminded me that he disliked me d
 old codgers here!"
a resolute-looking man in authority, who
r with the white head. "It is well. Forw
 That I do so is no subject for regret o
 of anyone anywhere at no cost and with 
"See you," said madame, "I care nothing 
out doubt you as a good patriot will be 
(which we found locked, and which one of
have been worth remarking that the fact 
 their eyes to look at it a moment ago w
re illustrations of old pages in the his
he court; they went the same Circuit, an
o Vauxhall Gardens; that failing, to Ran
unhappy land by bad instruments, and tha
 not void the remaining provisions.
They rested on some straw in a loft unti
yself--_my_self, Stryver of the King's B
-perhaps, if it had a fault, a little to
"Blest if I know," said Jerry.
al to retire and live at my ease. Time e
ear of our Lord, could possibly doubt, t
the apocryphal invisible lodger, and the
So polite and so impressible was Monseig
 carry me in triumph. My old pain has gi
"John Barsad," repeated madame, after mu
 She could never deliver me; I imagined 
n. "So, then! One more pull and you're a
ave it out in plain words! You hate the 
"As to the future," said the Doctor, rec
oor prisoner's cry with which he strengt
e to a point. I go on duty soon, and can
all have a young and ardent man at my si
him no harm. You will help me to see him
-assisted from behind more swiftly than 
, that glorious vision of doing good, wh
en himself and the wall.
re men stripped to the waist, with the s
o' one side. There'd be two sides to it.
ns of a gentleman's dress. On one of the
rief. The remodelled procession started,
 being always heavily wrapped up from he
I am a little stiff about the joints? Wh
k in any binary, compressed, marked up, 
you suspect the truth, or any part of it
ng, too; evidently a man of a strong res
 says this--Tellson's, whose bread I hav
rence, a species of fervour or intoxicat
 might be friends, I scarcely mean quite
 gloomily reflected on every leaf; as if
There were hurried words of farewell and
ered, the main facts of the cruel story,
ust leave your father and me alone for t
presses: I must finish those shoes."
 to petrify with a well-directed gun.
But he had married in England? the Presi
rattling words. Let greater echoes resou
expect me to befriend you when you get b
ng in this slough of blood and dirt, wer
re he lay down; but, when he did finally
 projects; but also I feel that if I del
as if she were lying in our presence.
a few cases) to be sent back to their ce
as though it had been stamped upon her f
not opened immediately, in answer to the
ntleman. And look here! Once more!"--Mr.
way. Finally, with a deep long sigh, he 
d backward from the table, the waiter sh
n, my wenturs goes wrong to-night, I sha
Reason; and the team had capitulated and
 seven gory heads on pikes, the keys of 
arth, you least expected to see me?" he 
all, and surveyed himself minutely in it
ime in his life, and took his post by th
so much more at my ease about your state
carry it away.
"They call me Defarge."
o order of procedure, ensuring to any ac
re."
o interfere with an old fellow of hard u
s; then, rang the bell, and ordered in a
s family, stared him so reproachfully in
 _their_ husbands and fathers laid in pr
 But, invested for the moment with extra
copy of or access to a Project Gutenberg
hat I do it. In the days when all these 
to be still consecrated to you, or if my
ost-horses and two postilions, fagged up
end you on to Paris, under an escort."
 the hill six soldiers. In the midst of 
n all weathers, from two to four, always
"Guess."
boy's father--do not do it, sir--and let
t."
se with the escort."
ll his glory; but, the changed times wer
andwriting; but that it was all the same
 had a better employed brother than Mr. 
alked on in silence, he could not but se
chman in a warning voice, looking down f
t me ask you a question."
t in November one thousand seven hundred
ong sigh as he composed himself to sleep
no more drink; I'll get to bed."
te the precious moments now? Take him yo
 oddest manner, as if he were compelled 
might; but Tellson's, thank Heaven--!
h which they passed, an excited orator, 
hrough the door of communication. The Ma
 the harness, and the mud, and the mail,
ing tenderness, yet so courageous for hi
gered and maimed the mere vulgar in a ba
ngs are to be answered for, I summon you
orld, and that what we should most pray 
y mindful of your interest. The things t
 he looks on, and then his head will be 
er the starlight, in their public vehicl
e; he stands at the back of the tumbril 
 he timed the executioner, Carton was so
ess and companion, in a life of quiet bl
The fellow was brought, cap in hand, and
 trying the honest men. The lowest, crue
It was dark when Charles Darnay left him
attened his flaxen wig upon his head wit
de at the Royal George Hotel at Dover, a
r of the Judge's bench, two persons upon
ing apart from either suggestion, whispe
 are there."
"We have borne this a long time," said M
 by his anxious gravity.
ette!" he said deferentially.
iness office is located at 809 North 150
n. He was not suspected or brought in qu
der and splendour and elegantly spurning
"Age, about forty years; height, about f
one of the greatest scoundrels upon eart
leave him. In any case, I will take care
 been doing near him in the night, and m
nattainable, into his mind. Of late, the
ss.
 papers.
and was filled to overflowing. It was wi
ss mind, when the business mind is divid
 again, Defarge said, "Go on, Jacques."
 authority, who was summoned out by the 
r in the Bastille, would touch me, excep
d for a minute at a time by the dripping
he condition on which I ask it, and whic
on of it, don't heed me any more than if
to your commands. It is in vain I repres
ce had got to the pass that its little h
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contribut
he level," said this hoarse messenger, g
 for the scene about him, and always spe
oining of hands and dancing, a dozen tog
to speak to him.
hrough life.
"Excuse me, Monsieur the Marquis--it is 
ce of Truth. There, Monseigneur turned, 
quire, I will observe immediately."
of great beauty, and young; assuredly no
I walked on, that night and half next da
ove and attachment, the gratitude or res
result, without a check. Of the men, the
ever tending westward with the sun, the 
nt, delivered over to all devilry--a hea
ntioned that before, sir. We men of busi
Nothing was said in answer, but she hear
er edition.
 shadowy indication that the old air of 
aring and blaring, was a young man of ab
y; "but give me my work! What is to beco
ould most pray for, was, that our women 
g, wandering old man pointed out.
ster than by finally relieving her of he
t; otherwise, that a man in good clothes
 in Tellson's Bank were principally occu
? Another carriage having already gone f
the people of the chateau, and some of t
" and when he looked about him, it evide
ps the quiet time brought some sense of 
but, he took less than was given to the 
s with a tall man bound, and that they a
 of the conflagration, a red-hot wind, d
 shall never die."
f a group of fifty particular friends, a
rimed with gunpowder and sweat, issued o
tches and purses in their boots, and wer
he hill, he hanging by the chain--like t
t the ears, or point what he said, stood
ut, there! Spies!"
 Manette, to the hands of the President.
ugh the horse was), at a gallop, like a 
 she of his father's and uncle's respons
making his way to Mr. Lorry, with the no
oach-step, getting in; the two other pas
 on horseback, and the conveying away of
oad in the course of the night?"
ch is among the most striking and necess
e in the beginning. It was famous, too, 
gh her tears, "Mr. Cruncher."
 as he went down the dark streets, among
if the fire-grate had been the furnace i
ribbon, with the stain dyeing those trif
aid Madame Defarge.
s me, is Jerry.")
But, such awful workers, and such awful 
hundred soon. Samson and his men complai
sterious and guilty manner, Mr. Lorry ha
s one, with a spare piece of knitting un
ected, and in part discovered, the main 
d turned out of their road to avoid any 
pid. The corner echoed and re-echoed wit
ild alarm and hurry we are for getting o
ead. No man better known than he, in Par
 at his nose. "When Monsieur the Marquis
oom at the moment.
ou let me hold your hand? I am not afrai
head after its removal, his hands in his
the whip, as long as this roof," looking
ved the obligation--kept inviolate betwe
r; years had not tamed the wildness, or 
t. Before long, the consideration that t
im greatly, and he asked of the first ma
f you are ready, I am."
l, that a word from her father in any su
rd. I'll not leave a handful of that dar
shoe upon his lap, pausing in his labour
 was nothing to do, in the first place; 
t all the company at the grand hotel of 
 Project Gutenberg-tm concept of a libra
 peculiar inclination towards the left c
ere all as usual.
f business--don't be distressed. Miss, i
is misery: and the sound of her voice, t
ce that followed.
 to tea.
t, made it the uglier, showing how warpe
 murmur--like the breathing of a summer 
s, deposited on a substratum of cutlass.
en the wicket closed. There was one amon
fallen into a stupor on the floor at his
honoured father, and implore his pardon 
hall go to the wall (comparatively speak
only saved by the men belonging to them 
iscation and destruction, and their very
e two dints in the nose became obscured:
as only one mourner, dressed in the ding
 of purveyors; the former carrying the m
d neither to walk on pavements of gold, 
tching the running of the water and the 
 this course with you. And when she died
y gave her of her husband, and clasped t
ere in the adjoining dark room, speaking
y four and a half." The prisoner walked 
er window in the prison, to which Charle
 in no regard; I have done nothing good 
g your forgiveness for it. I had no othe
pectations."
th so much pleasure to seeing him once m
 them, with a dreadful cry; "but give me
to Tellson's and take leave of Mr. Lorry
 gentleman to take her out. Don't you se
h compassion and anger in this neighbour
This answer had a happy effect upon the 
houghts. And as Madame Defarge moved on 
 did all this portend, and what portende
h in with most inappropriate difficulty.
His hold on life was strong, and it was 
"Yes, yes, thank God. I didn't quite mea
ee tumbrils faring away with their dread
he only passenger who came on board in t
beautiful scene to look at, and adorned 
und the glass for his lips. Two or three
o more of you, or you shall feel some mo
r. "Help, Gabelle! Help, every one!" The
owship, what he did mean?
st gratitude and affection could reverse
d across the courtyard, or a thump from 
 I hope the topic on which I am about to
arge jaws, and those other two of the pl
 you if I think proper, and I can swear 
sumed her knitting: "Hah! Good day, age 
the dozing passenger inquired of this sp
ere posted as close to himself as they c
 allow his baffled state to express itse
rowd caught it up with eagerness, and lo
said Madame Defarge, wrathfully; "and se
GLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, BREACH OF WA
p, crying, "Dead!"
cle. "I look to the pleasure of seeing y
things, and all things on their last roa
r sending it to England."
wing to the Guillotine. In front of it, 
llow, that it would have been hard to sa
Now, the sun was full up, and movement b
 the arms of a company of Samaritans, wh
ctly happy young wife, when her work wou
 here some time?"
 had once put in practice to "catch" him
 reason to think, will be."
into the heavy twilight. Lucie sat by he
Though he said it with a grave smile of 
eur the Marquis demands that evening, 'S
s is summoned for to-morrow."
od at the top of the cabin steps to have
 mistaken.
 probably end in the silence of the grav
ds--the only grounds ever worth taking i
markings in the nose, curved with a sarc
 out theirs. Mere messages in the earthl
After grasping the Doctor's hand, as he 
 chair, a table, and a straw mattress. A
 Anna Dominoes: apparently under the imp
saying, or so much as thinking, anything
of wine. As he passed behind the counter
ed to her husband that he would do well 
ing, and was a monster much dreaded. The
o represented that his life was endanger
"Take off his head!" cried the audience.
tion of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
ould have been well enough as to appeara
m the young lady, whose anguish in givin
a defect in the      electronic work is 
m at the back here. You must leave your 
North Barrier, and emerged upon the coun
It was as late as seven o'clock when he 
"Tut, tut!" said Mr. Lorry; "what is thi
ere questions which no sagacity could ha
ge, in a resounding voice. "Patriots and
s a single spoken word, disclosed to her
"Come, then! You shall see the apartment
ter ease. He had that rather wild, strai
s would be seventy-eight heavy curses; w
ky, and by the daylight, it is a crumbli
ay, ranging from the landlord to the low
r of roads, with extended finger. "You g
. Barsad, and see what you have. Don't h
clock at night?"
hall tell you of my name, and of my fath
food--he sobbed twelve times, once for e
t be a man!" was Mr. Lorry's breathless 
ng him. "Him and his hooroars! Don't let
little was audible any day, and which wa
I     Triumph      Chapter VII    A Knoc
 slowly.
tor's lodgings commanded a pleasant litt
es our said serene, illustrious, excelle
isoner Evremonde at La Force!" and a tho
evidently disappointed by the dialogue t
 that he looked forward to the pleasure 
ur noble name!" was the poor prisoner's 
nd variety of objects in movement were e
"Mr. Barsad has been recognised by Miss 
"Upon my life," said Carton, smiling, "I
 several printed editions, all of which 
s hand on the back of her chair: "what h
nded madame, tying another knot, as if t
from Soho-square. On the afternoon of a 
much avail to interrogate any stone face
 opposition to the interests of your hus
h an impassive stare; others, with a lin
ven bless you!"
t and ubiquitous fiend too, for, while i
 resolute not to tell her what impended 
 the foot of the same scaffold, not long
been laden. Dear Doctor Manette, I love 
Soon, Madame Defarge's hands ceased to s
 submerged. It was appointed that the bo
It was in vain for Mr. Cruncher to repea
n, summoned to rise against the tyrants 
 do I? When I ask you to pass out at tha
ther and son, extremely like each other,
"You cannot see him, my poor dear?"
 they threatened the pile of building ma
the guard to open the barrier. Then he d
operty to us fast enough. There is posit
lingered at a little distance, and turne
is attitude, even in this excitement. Wh
with great attention and curiosity at th
eving that there was a young sister livi
ause, the counsel looked with great atte
 victim, because some family affairs in 
n with dark curling hair, from forty-fiv
g. Look around and consider the lives of
eigneur was altogether blighted and dese
ving seated there, returned.
g a long breath, "if I understand you, M
r father, the gentleman was of Beauvais.
"Just now, if at all."
veth and believeth in me, shall never di
father in the family room. Something had
ging about, press nearer to the coach do
"
nto which his weapon had slipped or wrou
"Charles Darnay! I rejoice to see you. W
"
fact, without comment, that I have been 
hurch, that there might be need to ring 
d so frightfully for that occupation, an
n could reverse them, for he could have 
"I have lived with the darling--or the d
n his life for him; but, within a minute
!" and the Spy presented himself.
Sydney drank a bumper of the punch he ha
oll which bore more memorable wrecks wit
hat man's who stands there. The other is
g
"Indeed?"
g time," said Madame Defarge, turning he
place. After it is over--say at eight to
who had been moving round her to take in
"Say then, my husband. What is it?"
all! until he absolutely wept with senti
l years. I attended him in his last illn
The rider from the chateau, and the hors
sonal influence so wisely, that he was s
 to the day of the week, and the day of 
 causing such a concussion of air on his
us passenger might, and was disturbed in
aid, indignantly turning to Mr. Lorry; "
he three, with the second predominating.
"No dinner?"
 Free and happy, back in the old house i
"That is what you are not to ask me. But
wers. A small lofty room, with its windo
There were many women at that time, upon
in the bitter winds of spring, in the ho
ould take it into her brightly ornamente
e honour and repose of the family, if yo
's bench (there was nothing else in the 
g, stared at him. All the human breath i
ho made off with it, was put to Death; t
.
 after another pause of feeble sympathy 
shing and floundering, a man's voice cal
ed the Bastille and shot the people. Oth
 few blows.
shut with a spring, for ever and for eve
 counterpart on these street stones?"
an, so besmeared that he might have been
r trial looking lovingly at his wife, hi
 that he sings, and tries to dance. Not 
he profit of the business," said Jerry, 
oned before the tribunal, and shall lose
him: for, among the many wild suspicions
 first perceived them to be twin brother
rie?"
 her eyes looked at the stranger. "Stay 
ading to the family, and was ridiculous.
understand that you give the evidence wh
 anything should be otherwise than safe 
sual hand to his mouth.
ering lumps of dull ice on his body and 
n this world."
 a small Southern man of retaliative tem
 that throws you and me together. This m
ession, therefore, sinister."
like myself, whom I love very dearly. Sh
d it himself--which is surely such an in
"That's well. I have known such energy a
taken out and burnt while he looks on, a
e, or even with handkerchiefs from women
"Were there any other passengers in the 
 to him married (if that could be) than 
oked sublime and prophetic.
 watch, and it was twenty minutes past t
 place, and mused in the sight of men. M
ay to any of them. I intend to take Jerr
Nevertheless, not a moment was lost; not
 am not much else. I will, with your lea
xcitement, patriotic fervour, not a touc
off. No fight could have been half so te
ll not be in vain. Charles is summoned f
own on his own bed, and her head had gra
ce, and terminated in the honest tradesm
se letters before the lights were put ou
have been married long ago. You English 
 England!"
he drag?"
ure were vividly recalled, I think. It i
there anything in his bulk and stature t
l tongue. It elicited an answering choru
 hundred times better than he had though
de as he could, and shut it with a sound
itation."
work you for it just the same as if I se
with a fixed despair of himself which ma
llowed on one another so fast, that the 
"Who are you?"
"Never you mind."
erything but his shoemaking did die out 
 you do not charge anything for copies o
mplaint had sometimes made itself audibl
n's side of Temple Bar, bursting in his 
 words of secret conference. That, the m
th and sensuality, and fighting out the 
here, and, carefully feeling in the pock
The drunken patriot had them in his cap,
ny gentleman breathing."
 the room, it was plain that all was los
d the Doctor, turning towards the window
 for it. When I have yielded myself to i
Bacchanalian propensities; neither was M
"By the cathedral door," said Miss Pross
f 20% of the gross profits you derive fr
"Pardon me! I mean, not a long time on t
 as ever, but not knitting to-day. Madam
ffection and duty of a daughter who has 
. I had no apprehension whatever of my r
"Against."
"O dearest Charles, let me thank God for
Not in the wine-shop did Madame Defarge 
n hundred and eightieth year of our Lord
"But that very circumstance would be ala
and mother. That, he called with confide
"You are fatigued. Good night!"
"Ah, what a pity! We so much regret it! 
Silence in the court! Charles Darnay had
e felt his freedom more completely gone.
ing about him while in this state of sus
of smoke.
Some minutes of silent work had passed: 
is indignation, Mr. Cruncher betook hims
innocent were so constantly put to death
Chief Justice in the Court of King's Ben
ot be better that he should let it go?"
alked to and fro, and the clocks struck 
gallop, like a new version of the German
 a gentleman who had accidentally broke 
bent over their shoulders, to sip, befor
"I think not. I am sure not. It can't be
as, to smash this witness like a crocker
pes. Word of honour!"
"
 not at all improved when he came to his
 his release from his long imprisonment;
 nothing, still enlarged upon his man li
man, is not so much to the purpose, as t
issaries of the law were in possession o
and streets. The Defarges, husband and w
r the specks of sail that glinted in the
 a bull-necked, martial-looking man of t
nce drawing the coach across the road, w
on, deafening and maniacal bewilderment,
ng to him; of the weapons worn, or laid 
 within her, representing that it was sh
 down at the mattress, he turned from it
ver the motionless bundle, and moving ge
now it."
ggonloads of wet straw, hard work at nei
 said the mender of roads, with a hungry
odding man of business who only deals wi
was no other music than their own singin
es before all. The People is supreme. Ev
The dead man disposed of, and the crowd 
ng the Project Gutenberg-tm name associa
Guards had heralded the sublime appearan
re, whatever it was. Why need I speak of
 character.
ate, the tax for the church, the tax for
; neither was Mr. Stryver, already fast 
"I am he. Necessarily, being the last."
 utter a word upon the topic that oppres
emark, and may not be used if you charge
of her voice, the light of her face, the
Heaven, no. A village. Look back, look b
rs. It is easy to foresee that the prete
d when she died--I believe broken-hearte
n those days), with a pretty desire to c
e crimes against the people, of the king
ill. A blush on the countenance of Monsi
 according to its kind.
The shining Bull's Eye of the Court was 
warning.
"'Monsieur,' said I, 'in my profession, 
t. Let it be removed when he is not ther
 in their place of residence; they had b
ents, to stem the wine as it ran; others
n hammer, soldiers laugh and sing; in th
s a man behind him.
hours, when he presented himself. He was
urprised," said her brother Solomon, "I 
appeared, from overlooking a painter who
e. A parting blessing for our child."
" With that advice, he wiped his soiled 
t with his blue cap. What did all this p
t she was sinking.
 up both by Nature and Art, who had bala
ouched me in a different way--have affec
ter, and what do you say now!"
Two score and twelve were told off. From
 to pluck him out into the streets and k
beyond the worth of a few jewels--I will
 the rust off his fingers in his absorpt
"Kiss me, child of Evremonde. Now, thou 
s and forebodings by which I have been s
nate his life. How high it was from the 
"Sir, I can do neither."
the best of times, but it would seem to 
drag had been adjusted to the wheel, and
 tact for it. Find out somebody. Find ou
not entirely comprehend how much my mind
ne was clamorous to have its wine-shop k
se he has slain Monseigneur, and because
 of the year 1767, in my unbearable agon
 joint inheritor, and next successor, fr
n. All the women knitted. They knitted w
d, soot-begrimed workman reading a journ
men have committed similar follies often
ld have read the mysteries of his mind, 
hapes to him as arose out of the message
matic remarks in detail; but, she so far
 and miseries; like you, striving to liv
e elder brother, I saw him looking down 
r Gabelle; and in a moment of reluctance
public.
 his road.
s sat on the heap of stones looking sile
e was in some misty way asking himself, 
 English, that it is the Refuge of many.
ing, gave a chivalrous tone to things, w
nd.
 quickly forgotten, it will never be fou
newal of this disorder?"
and body, and retired into the house. Sh
spilled on the street-stones, and when t
But the shadow of the manner of these De
side him, a vast number and variety of o
her father.
ve of Beauvais, and afterwards resident 
 cold water and began laving her eyes, w
siness-meaning there. Every eye then sou
em, or otherwise getting of them out of 
may see them," said Defarge to the turnk
s in the court, ran the letters: Nationa
"I believe," returned Doctor Manette, "t
The ringing of the bell had caused the a
e he was composed, and hoped that he cou
ic, and possesses its confidence. But my
n his hurried wonder as he wrote, the ha
"This lasted twenty-six hours from the t
It was dense enough to shut out everythi
England, he of course knew now. That per
s you represent it to be to you. I have 
lest shadow of a stress upon the second 
Darnay, stood there before him upon his 
culiarity that he always seemed too big 
 set upon them to pluck them to pieces a
 finger. "You go down here, and straight
nk and wall the three turned out of the 
y wager, sir, that a House like Tellson 
, and show me no affection."
g with Charles Darnay. They were ready t
 that, as he walked to and fro in the Te
; you might have seen it."
ess. The raggedest nightcap, awry on the
Our booked passenger showed in a moment 
!" exclaimed Carton, with a bright flush
erous locations.  Its business office is
et-corner was the sunny part of his life
flourish of ceremony, for a mail journey
irected gun.
in falling, and they made me start. We h
rtment. It was a large, dark room, furni
ng straight before him.
berately folded and superscribed the not
e!" said madame, composed as ever, but n
e, and last night he had dropped the bra
 occupation, and it was so welcome when 
n ourselves, I am by no means certain, o
ompletely gone.
The first of them told him so, with the 
h Bar, far on his way to state promotion
ms were bound to her sides with sashes a
er the name and place of abode. Whereas,
. All that I may tell you, here and now,
 his unwillingness to mar the effect by 
 But, I would not take it away while he 
nimble spring upward, and came down in a
n, to the ridge of the tiled roof, and t
on. Ah! the poor Gaspard!" With a sigh o
of the past day, the real strong rooms, 
e dark eyes that looked contemptuously a
nch, "are such a sensitive and poetical 
At two-thirds of a league from the Barri
cian. French. Which is he?"
make, "because I know you don't mean hal
vealed themselves, in the forms their do
llage whispers by the fountain; all the 
atred as strong as mine. What did the tw
"They only come from the heart, Jerry. T
came to the side of the mail, where the 
re asked some question. It would seem to
ut on his hat and they went down into th
hen he had thrown himself upon it no lon
s after he had emerged into the outer pr
wn in his clothes on a neglected bed, an
aving an awful stillness, it passed out 
Bar was an old-fashioned place, even in 
ll kinds?"
any, that it, and the ground it most pol
ence. He professed himself more relieved
d: he that believeth in me, though he we
by the fountain, and the peasants suspen
hed the task he had set himself, his pro
"Monseigneur, it is nothing. The trees a
elfish thing.
"I must bear it, if you let it in." (Lay
Title: A Tale of Two Cities        A Sto
, growling over it like any four-footed 
he door, with an appearance of showering
d then recrossed the road and entered th
Cannon, muskets, fire and smoke; but, st
ow; and, as the afternoon shadows deepen
all my own--it is little beyond the wort
e."
lt, when we stopped for the drag?"
 would have disinherited his son on the 
ow to help produce our new eBooks, and h
e, when I can prove them. That I do so i
arm securely through the leathern strap,
ot quite like a good citizen; it is a th
s gone. Climbing to a high chamber in a 
doorway to which he had directed his own
e, half derived from the waning oil-lamp
nd-twenty, well-grown and well-looking, 
e been the cause of it. Could you tell h
e both wrapped in cloaks, and appeared t
st to the mill again.
y? Who would think of plotting with a po
 for me, the Reception of the day before
e maximum disclaimer or limitation permi
 have been dining with the day's client;
 of the eyes, and the thin straight lips
lace of the same description they had pa
Lorry, as an amendment.
 This Foulon was at the Hotel de Ville, 
it has been such torture to me to think 
olling through the streets. Her mind pur
is on the fifth floor. The doorway of th
 felt that your life should not be waste
dy dark, when I raise my eyes, and see c
of this man, and where, at least, she wi
me."
 what they said, and saw only that they 
eabouts, even Tellson's shall go to the 
 The passenger would then start to himse
rass. Monseigneur, they are so many, the
Undoubtedly it was.
*****
ent gleams of light above the billowy he
afterwards the day began to dawn, and he
do it again, whatever it is, and I beg y
ess of purpose, strength of resolution, 
tructure of hope on his prolonged absenc
, made haste to say:
are now intimate; I will say with the fa
es: it might be twice or thrice running:
of inoffensive persons who had never bee
r in the village well--thousands of acre
hich he strengthened his sinking heart, 
n Miss Pross first became aware of her; 
e; is he not a little dangerous?"
gorous tenacity of love, always so much 
 take it in your hand; it's no forgery."
ttle, sustained a great deal of fatigue 
 "I _have_ saved him. What weakness is t
ne Sunday when the waves of four months 
 we agreed that I would not present myse
as little appearance as possible of doin
 to group, all three went quicker and fi
ember nothing of this man? Look at him. 
s! We know now, what a struggle you made
e him dismount of the posting-yard, and 
 there, and brought us here. I knew it w
d. Yet, human fellowship infused some no
"I have done my best for you, Mr. Darnay
It proceeded from Miss Pross, the wild r
he had meant to do it, and that it had n
ingers that clasped him in so violent a 
Seven prisoners released, seven gory hea
n elderly gentleman of a fresh complexio
 bred; also, there were other villagers 
 eternal frost, when the light was playi
"I am a Briton," said Miss Pross, "I am 
 bow, informed his son, in passing, of h
e brothers were then so exactly alike, t
 wos so."
ss and the silence have touched me in a 
in attracted to his face. Taking note of
undertakers, and wot with parish clerks,
"Your afflicted,
forwards between France and England for 
egant variety and contrast obtained by t
ll go there at once and come back presen
ainst him. If they move him at all, it i
as at that time, as to French intelligen
assed him. On their reaching the courtya
"Not if to lift this glass would do it! 
d with the general body of prisoners; he
dy in the neighbourhood could endure a l
advance, and by the cracking of his post
ar good man. For his daughter's sake, my
igneur turned, and came back again, and 
window. The energy which had at once sup
t to sacrifice her. Listen to what is to
ames in lists of their own, turned them 
Mr. Lorry's eyes gradually sought the fi
 or write. When he put his tools aside a
ons are in their saddles, and the old ar
"'You know, Doctor, that it is among the
ich the boy had addressed the elder brot
y impressing him through every tender me
 and Mr. Darnay stood upon the pavement.
e, and 'Hush!' The frenzy was so violent
Lorry," said Stryver; "I have a night's 
from the depths of his mind, the prisone
 skins and bones; they had very little e
 and those tools beside him?"
. But you must be fatigued. Shall we ter
, across the prison--seemed to strike ac
s, stout, loud, red, bluff, and free fro
"A despatch sent after you from over yon
reat door, burnt as if they were in a cl
Sydney Carton would never be a lion, he 
and there, in a corner, stood the disuse
anised city, if it were not a disorganis
so sitting in judgment had risen and ide
Doctor Manette was very cheerful at the 
ow!"
"I intend to try. I will not rest a mome
e for the second time; but, now they see
 house was sunny with a child's laugh, a
ng star. And as mere human knowledge can
 you hear me?"
the first of the persons with whom this 
ull extent permitted by U.S. federal law
 any longer, it was arranged that he sho
 of it, there could be no doubt that he 
y a ghost story.
t Antoine knew his own sufferings, insul
 have looked at her when it has been suc
th Lucie again, and she told him it was 
s of vile streets and courts, for a brea
l the spilt wine swallowed?"
refugee; and Monseigneur looked at it in
pon, with not a trace of this day's disf
is, glancing at his hands, "directly."
tening, until I have made the echoes out
nd the past, "the old seesaw Sydney. Up 
"He is right there, Jacques," murmured D
"I was saying to madame, with whom I had
 way, into a tavern. Here, they were sho
 Defarge, with his pipe in his mouth, wa
th, had already set apart to be his tumb
 a little forge. We will say that he was
l I not promise to my Love?"
er father, and they sat alone under the 
hat his sweet temper was soured, and tha
d happened since the garret time were a 
 all of a sudden, split himself into two
of our customers to another in the cours
 out for a stroll on the beach. The litt
onfidence, "you touch some of the reason
e had not put them there first. He had s
own wig back, "that I should have to pas
I have sometimes sat alone here of an ev
oborate his account of it, the Jury decl
nner could not prevent her blood from ru
egraph between her and the crowd outside
hands cut off, his tongue torn out with 
per. They were only three at table, and 
ment."
could foresee the extent; also, for the 
."
amber straight, the cries growing louder
"It is so," assented Defarge once more.
urch-organs claimed to be made, and silv
; Miss Pross, with the vigorous tenacity
ion copyright in the collection of Proje
 spy, "that his daughter came; and it wa
stir and settling down in the court, sto
 caps and with pipes in their mouths, wh
geance.
and do you, Jacques One and Two, separat
 giving no very gracious consent, the li
"Yes."
rifles, by delicate hands, clear eyes, a
leman from Tellson's Bank. Please to let
y great respect for your sister, I might
d no effect upon the cries; no pendulum 
"My meaning," answered the man of busine
 any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm e
and, my father, and my brother!' and the
ch they had wandered; when they rested o
of his heart; it closed under the gaoler
ption, beforehand, that the spot where t
hat you should kneel to us! We know now,
 this matter. Not only do I feel, since 
estless degree that I had no chance for 
 overthrown government he had been a spy
 he had stationed his saw inscribed as h
ight constancy is in the patient face. S
 so fast, there is so much want. Monseig
e face of your own wittles and drink! I 
Fate, to come down and be sawn into boar
"Mr. Carton," she answered, after an agi
ss--to whom the event, through a gradual
e his own little shrewd doubts to solve,
oked up steadily, and looked the Marquis
ed to Defarge, and he thought of finding
rned towards it, that he used his tools 
in.
"I, my Pross?" (By this time, Mr. Lorry 
hat she once or twice whispered in his e
"Why, to be sure!" exclaimed Jerry, reca
er to it again. If I were dead, that cou
ce of his blue one) seemed fascinated by
pposed that there was sense where there 
o sound English. Such masters were not a
ge, and he saw the carriage waiting in t
sitor they were aware of had stood, was 
t me look."
against him:
e action he went astray, and, with anoth
other!' and would count up to twelve, an
eed to see your victim and your opportun
!"
 incomplete. He knew that he ought to ha
is. The barrier was closed and strongly 
ris.
well, that to the force of these circums
I rose long before my usual time next mo
pulace is turning round, to come on into
e, and there was a saddling of a horse a
e do, is done in vain. I believe, with a
 what an adorable woman!" exclaimed Jacq
nce without moving.
 water of the fountain ran, the swift ri
f your understanding."
The lion then composed himself on his ba
trademark.  Project Gutenberg is a regis
"He must take his chance," said Madame D
asant's, all trodden-down sentiment, and
ion of professional knowledge, to the co
and degree, and the master of the wine-s
ve!"
, came whirling by. The rats had crept o
 from a House that had long been hateful
 itself in shining forms. Free and happy
 words for it, they came to him coherent
orthlessness) be unavenged.
t Tellson's. Whether his meditations on 
 steel blades and bayonets shone in the 
vel."
 worth such tears as those, than any wre
 conscious of no fear. Rather, they orig
spoke, through their foreman.
ortnight together. It was enough that he
th, I shall hold sacred the one good rem
f our society have been in secret, at fi
ct to Defarge's, and went in.
een similarly buried in worse prisons, b
or allowing me to sound you, and for giv
rable people who cannot leave it and who
 on bowing in the empty office until the
rches, where no prayers were said, for t
en warped and wrested from the young lad
 going to prison, was no more remarkable
isrespectful word of that young lady fro
on't be uneasy; I shall reappear in the 
cannonier--Defarge of the wine-shop work
mused, and the moment she raised her eye
 the length of a few of these streets, I
 pursued."
 hairy skins of beasts, the powerful fra
 He sat by a newly-lighted wood fire (th
a very muddy boot, and may introduce the
The unseen force was drawing him fast to
ed foreign woman; I am your match."
s business, at the house of Monseigneur.
, like the people on the shore.
. A rose lay beside her, and if she now 
 scattered throughout numerous locations
m.
e bottom of the hill, a broad sweep and 
t, all was done. He never thought of Car
r to honest minds, that Mr. Lorry and Mi
Of the men, the greater part were armed 
ong the sunny streets from Clerkenwell w
ce. He referred to them, as if she were 
t was a dreadful thing to bring a child 
eturned, and found no tidings of him, an
He had no idea that this could dwell in 
which the populace had discovered there,
hing to all of us, as if there were only
conduct your sister safely to the corner
ses, with the petition in his hand."
ld his brother--and what that is, will n
The Doctor was summoned in the usual way
g of that sort," said Mr. Cruncher.
"Do you suppose," Mr. Lorry went on, wit
n, as it were, in a very curious look at
with the lifting of her darkly defined e
y. I have been a Bastille prisoner. Ther
that he turned away.
its light shining on him, waiting for th
uncher to repeat what he said; Miss Pros
 hard, until the awful striking of the c
farge.
as altogether in an absent and preoccupi
 down on Mr. Lorry's hearth like a man w
"Oh! they'll find him guilty," said the 
m, the very chairs and tables seemed to 
 the night.
eed been recalled to life some eighteen 
 fill with tears, and the lips part a li
 spluttered. "What is it?" cried Lucie, 
"--Here is my husband!" said Madame Defa
?
 and no ruined nobility had dropped out 
n the thoughts that were inspiring her. 
"Why not?"
ween ourselves."
dark in the gloom. Up the two terrace fl
e in the port, and a quantity of strolli
Jacques One struck in, and asked if he h
anner of breathing, Carton--his hand aga
sight.
 dearer to me than my life. Who and wher
ailing at that time, poor fellow, and sh
 It now shone brightly, through the door
n English lady--and I was one of the tru
hurry to the grizzled mender of roads, a
 panting in breathless from his struggle
dropped the brandy slowly down on Mr. Lo
"From here, at eight."
gacity could have solved. They tried spe
ompany at Monseigneur's reception in tha
, distinct, awe-stricken voice, as if sh
rs, or with which the phrase "Project Gu
ng into several wine-shops, she stopped 
Miss Pross. "What do you say?"
urse? Can I in no way repay your confide
nd turned, their matted locks now flung 
tive at the head of a shopkeeper without
Without deigning to look at the assembla
adfastly in his face:
bled as the future was, it was the unkno
er has       influence around me.  You c
"
"Will you accompany me," said Mr. Lorry,
ion; for what is his life, or any man's 
of Beauvais, "and they had heard of me, 
ead. His manner and his look quite terri
ys behind."
he day's bad work, for Saint Antoine so 
formats will be found in:         http:/
on, could, for the moment, nerve him to 
ny lives must inevitably be sacrificed."
adame Defarge, looking down at her with 
ugh it included all the four expressions
ever unworthily was an honour, had commu
u shall! Promise me solemnly that nothin
may be a necessary preparation. But care
He stopped. There was a heavy lumbering 
and you have recovered, and don't move y
Fleet-street, and which were made the di
l, were to be paid here and to be paid t
 waist-coat, as though it pitted its gra
elf agreeable than you have, being more 
tter would never be heard of; but, I wis
s foot.
hard life by dwelling on any causes of c
 you. I can't afford it. I'm not a going
"He would count as one head," observed J
 doorways, as his eyes were close to one
sieur Defarge put this provender, and th
gantly despondent as he could becomingly
n my mind, Miss Pross, whether it is goo
In England, there was scarcely an amount
e in his arms, and carried her up to the
Darnay's mind was roused to vigourous li
ted. Among these last, was one, with a s
 had seen common people struck more comm
dden emergence from ambuscade, and sharp
; but, muskets were being distributed--s
houghtfully, as if there were something 
ap himself in a number of coats and cloa
 open, they were overpowered by heat. Wh
"Carton! Dear Carton! It is madness. It 
he answer on himself, and looking at his
ad. "Touch that string, and he instantly
"Let him come out too," said Solomon. "D
yond myself, and would have fallen on yo
 the neck, and rocked him on her breast 
 made to hold it, moved after these word
! As to bowing down in body and spirit, 
 attentively at him, and goes his way.
onfirmed, and I reiterate my advice."
irst stranger to whom little Lucie held 
ve against wave, whose depths were yet u
e, whether he approved?
k his punch and looked at his complacent
 and Lucie was unconscious and happy; bu
und.
, Mr. Lorry," said Stryver, squaring his
t to his nephew, then to himself.
d up to?"
although it is not likely they will ever
 now a very energetic man indeed, with g
f my soul. My parting blessing on my lov
 with a bullying air, as if the fire-gra
!" said Stryver.
ss, "that you never will do it again, wh
Again Mr. Cruncher nodded his head.
used himself; but he doubted, when he ha
 to him on topics that had been of late 
 he must face it.
. If he appeared to be in his customary 
 the man?" he muttered, at his own image
said Mr. Lorry, "though, upon my honour,
"Well! He is quiet. Can I restore him to
ntervals from the adjoining room. He pac
e now looked at him; not even Madame Def
 They tried speaking to him; but, he was
d contracted by something like a faint p
n if it wos. And which it is to be took 
 distrust that darkened the time, all th
e concourse at the stone. For a few mome
"And your duties here have drawn to an e
 thought of Carton. His mind was so full
"Look well upon that gentleman, my learn
ress. And who among the company at Monse
 and make no remark upon them."
 to breakfast.
 the prison again; but, that he, the Doc
After a pause, he added, again settling 
ions.
ut left them--so like each other in feat
rticulars, and were fired by an express 
equence, that nothing that ever was, was
the wet, wet roads at three o'clock in t
ly and unhappily wandered there, when wi
ke care of you. Never mind your having n
l torture; that he has never been able t
de them poor, were not wanting; the tax 
 was taken with that peculiar kind of sh
"O my father!" for he stood before her w
 keep eBooks in compliance with any part
e its shadow was darkest, had silently s
"I hope, sir," pleaded the abashed Mr. C
tenberg-tm and future generations. To le
 such a man as he had to do with. His pr
raries, had taken so many lives, that, i
y the elder, I mean him who exercised th
e us here. You see how composed he has b
tic sect of Convulsionists, and were eve
r that I demand to see her, or stand out
s upon Monsieur the Marquis by that time
dsome peasant boy--a boy of not more tha
e. Then it soared higher, and grew broad
ode; and the assertion of our station, i
rd of the building where he lived. Her f
an.'
ear. These she put on, out on the stairc
eak, do not move!"
le of the blight on him, and resigning h
wo hands of Madame Defarge buffeted and 
ill be home directly, and it is better s
t in the dismal twilight. Your money cam
triot in Paris--in Paris? In France--who
 some whisper that; they speak of nothin
"I can bear anything but the uncertainty
d in him when the occasion for repressio
 and all the heads craned forward that a
ssed the inquiry on to the nearest atten
ressed, while he stood looking quietly a
o with it, then, if a person may inquire
."
elf sent a letter to her (though never b
ttle creature!"
"Repression is the only lasting philosop
 for information, as a plodding man of b
and if she now and then glanced at the f
ight drink; and what with dropping blood
 touch his three-cornered hat to the old
e gate, and they had rushed in to work a
The Vengeance and Jacques Three vied wit
The President required the name of that 
ure in sight of all his retinue; prisone
outlive denunciation, when you are in co
e at this time of day!"
ll of the garret, very near to the bench
f the sisterhood.
d was his first friend on his release fr
octor had covered his eyes with his hand
 finger--!" She seemed to raise it (the 
r. Barsad, coming out of the prison of t
I pray to you to touch me and to bless m
"You are still hard at work, I see?"
nd--that my memory is exact and circumst
ss above them.
, when they were compared together, had 
 I have seen it many times. Don't be fri
to the window, and he had taken his soup
A white flag from within the fortress, a
k.  It may only be used on or associated
 that his right hand, armed with the kni
she had torn. It was then that I knew he
past for the lion, and proceeded to offe
rselves, that I do hope there will be no
serves."
th in me, shall never die."
forefathers; she saw, not him, but them.
nd seven hundred and seventy-five, lumbe
ch thing known to the fashion. Peasant w
d, though, are they not? Only hear them!
it still moaningly besought to have. He 
On Sundays, Miss Pross dined at the Doct
 We men of business, who serve a House, 
 rested upon nothing, save that vile and
waning oil-lamps of the night, and half 
im, he was fortunate in having his remed
your fellow-passenger on board the packe
 he could to propitiate, by tone and man
 to receive the work electronically in l
demark owner, any agent or employee of t
"With your gracious permission, that was
glance. The young forehead lifted itself
n, there were gardens, courtyards, terra
nd a-buzz, when the black sheep--whom ma
ade an effort to rally his attention. As
a woman, lost her, and knew her with a b
Mr. Lorry, with his open pocket-book in 
outskirts of the crowd, so that it swell
There were three rooms on a floor, and, 
ations with your name."
 patience and wait: that's all. We must 
 my thoughts to Him who was put to death
 Madame Defarge was a stout woman of abo
seigneur was out at a little supper most
 Cruncher, going on again, and lifting o
 of the thing she wanted, to look round 
es?"
o meditate. The jackal then invigorated 
ubt it is best that Mrs. Cruncher should
en presented to the King himself. What d
 dust, and that the dust moves with them
g Literary Archive Foundation and how yo
"It will do her no good to keep herself 
 being irresolute and purposeless, his f
and a young lady, who were seated in a c
Time was, when a poet sat upon a stool i
 must be something short-sighted in the 
it for me. He expressed great gentleness
tongues; whereat the jury's countenances
iry who had opened a prison-wall and let
"And do you really go to-night?"
into your rank, and I have fallen into m
late in November, before the first of th
grasp, and only said, in a low voice, "I
.
ith you?"
lace in it against her love for her fath
They were consigned to me, with him, at 
teau were opened.
t. And that aid was his own.
er went about, "Who are they?"
"They did."
"But it does matter," Mr. Lorry urged.
 augment it, that it quickly raised her,
s action to attract my particular attent
t they two were at bay. She saw a tight,
ng creatures is the first condition of t
As the day declined into the afternoon, 
 of some disclosure, to stay the spirit 
the roof and round at the walls.
her poverty for evermore, with no touch 
ower, he raised himself completely: obli
before the sequestration of emigrant pro
 the teaboard still there, Lucie? I can'
t leave it alone, like or no like. Somet
same. How can it be! When was it! How wa
thing that I do, than I have ever done; 
g a lantern, set forth on his return-pas
 never without its quantity of low, crue
isorder, there has been hurried packing,
ended--not an abolished--expression on t
The prison of La Force was a gloomy pris
zeness?"
en, is a good Republican and a bold man;
 front windows of the Doctor's lodgings 
es of barbarous and barren wilderness. N
"I said, 'I have seen her.'
urned to it when she spoke.
es of them, patiently waiting to buy bad
 Miss Pross. "When you began it--"
y. He will then let you in."
en the houses, as she came along, decora
hort by the whip in a most decided negat
ed by the drapery of his arm in an offic
escension and patronage than he could ha
faces that all he said was true. The two
 I pray for bodily strength to keep you 
ight, but we four. The prisoner was so g
that it must be kept secret from all who
one, even although he had left it incomp
se crown witnesses to-day. Every questio
hem, within the law and beyond it, that 
e. Your unselfishness cannot entirely co
 and an officer of a coarse, dark aspect
 to inform the society--in secret."
eeping the register? Without doubt it is
fe--so much as to let me know by a word 
t I have not asked? You are a turnkey at
nutes before her escort, and waiting the
ing, Miss Manette. An hour or two hence,
e once in five or six times: it might be
d benevolence, to put it to this other g
on-wall and let out a captive who had on
o sunken and suppressed it was, that it 
thers intent upon me.
 said Stryver, shaking his head in his b
read in the speaker's face that it was l
e the eyes survey the faces in the tumbr
 that point, and thanked him for it.
stayed there, staring, recovered her cha
art. They had a sinister expression, und
e.
eld out for it, that it may touch the wi
"I little thought," said Miss Pross, "th
sly to give force and power to it in thi
 me alone for two minutes, and as there 
h on all the roads.
re was ignorant hope. The horrible massa
"Now, let me see," said Madame Defarge, 
ve never seen you since. No; you have be
ould be proud and flattered to attend th
es, and a very harbour from the raging s
ry night.
After such imaginary discourse, the pass
to vigourous life by this letter. The pe
d King and the fair-faced Queen came in 
ail, as the rest of the passengers did; 
ndividual account--was in a state of the
as raised, looking steadily up at him; "
eal of fatigue with ease, and was equabl
, where any spectacle is well worth look
paper. It is good, until recalled. But i
 speak of in a whisper, across the water
He had put up a hand between his eyes an
locked room, "murdering the prisoners. I
heir own singing. They danced to the pop
itting his brows.
d the rest, to call him, presided in thi
range of red and purple where the sun go
sual orgies late into the night, and Car
*****
in," gallantly shot him through the head
ss to say it, I know, but it rises out o
E.9.
sked.
cie to be out with Miss Pross.
ss imposes its restraints and its silenc
e eyes, and bear witness with the bloodl
Dead darkness lay on all the landscape, 
said to the drawer, as he moved his chai
he spot where the only visitor they were
 he had seen many proofs, would produce 
 wine: while Carton sat opposite to him 
ully."
re that you might be much, much worthier
knuckled it in acknowledgment of this co
cie, hurriedly taking the paper from her
Because he had voluntarily relinquished 
 lamp, and wrote with his pencil on a sc
ld not be wasted, struck aside from the 
d Carton. "Be careful of my friend, I en
se, 'Tall as a spectre.'"
At first, his mind reverted to Defarge, 
s, a secret to the heart nearest it! Som
"She is greatly distressed; but her fath
he six carts go round, they seem to plou
 we didn't get much good of, you were al
eep the dogs obedient to the whip, as lo
ose who were announced as being thus fat
ce a rarity in those parts, but was now 
rer's assumption of indifference.
t him as to make him draw. Let him break
ather. Now comes the difference. If your
gly, and exterminate you from the earth.
n them that things in general were going
 father, my dear, in hands as earnest an
e it from us--I say, we were so robbed, 
eft the messengers at the gate, and saw 
is hand upon the Doctor's arm, and looke
wretchedly clothed, that they twisted st
le counter with her chain of money as if
quire who does me the honour to seek my 
 mention of this conversation in general
 assisting at a murder--for which, indee
e.
ling either way. Can I spare him?"
ion.
ice and turning his head towards the doo
vidently been a great distress to him, t
first to speak:
on't know, although they stood whisperin
ip ***** This and all associated files o
 hurriedly replied in the affirmative: s
hiding-places, while the depositors rust
here are pen and ink and paper on this t
The footsteps were incessant, and the hu
already considered the prisoner as good 
though it had passed like a moving light
 the wheel, and the carriage slid down h
shes and encouragement. He turned at the
leep. A more remarkable face in its quie
 set him thinking and counting, and evid
ld think."
night and day, since I have known you in
, Mr. Lorry went into his room with a ch
Vengeance, calling after her, for she ha
y Lord interposed (with as grave a face 
em far off? Do the days when you sat at 
 to the posting-house straight, and make
es?"
"That there Roger Cly, master," said Mr.
outh wall, not far off, on which the pea
ome, so remote from this little earth th
g defiance on Mrs. Cruncher, extinguishe
 and movement began in the village. Case
She laid her head upon her father's brea
have been quite happy with you."
 all, one hideous figure grew as familia
mill, obliged to feed scores of his tame
nd tri-colour cockade were universal, bo
 this door was fast closed, and the othe
 him after they found me and demanded to
"To the Devil with all that!" interrupte
terms of this agreement, you may obtain 
stones and earth in that there coffin. D
ess. See my saw! I call it my Little Gui
 me, even if it wos so--I don't say it i
 and stood surveying the guest while he 
ne of the kind smoothings and preparings
 from its frowning walls, and looked up 
en under the weight of his foot.
o consciousness, while she only faints."
 who were occasionally parties to the fu
 copying, distributing, performing, disp
 You may copy it, give it away or re-use
e bound by the terms of this agreement. 
n the United States without permission a
s benevolent purpose, that he recruited 
e was and to dust he must return, being 
our orders."
"There was no touch of pity, sorrow, or 
ts in the hall to a raised place, where 
as difficult, on first coming in, to see
ded, and yet it will hardly bring her. S
antity of wine had preceded the towellin
"The picturesque doctor's daughter, Miss
fidential bachelor clerks in Tellson's B
versing some two miles and a half of pub
 this state they set forth with the shar
"When you were talking to Lucie," Mr. Lo
o reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's goals 
ieur Manette, your father, the gentleman
 away or re-use it under the terms of th
r had spent her money and left her!
scrutable than its busy inhabitants are,
evival in the floating whispers of his s
 I could have come provided. As it is, t
ve imagined them the footsteps of the pe
 the appointed order of the Creator, nev
until I had told the brothers she was si
ancy itself. I know that, as in her chil
 with an air of stolid desperation, sett
fully out as he passed, and went chattin
 the Doctor, in a subdued tone, after so
"D--n _me_!" cried Stryver, "but this be
his right hand at the stock of his raise
"Which I entreated you to believe, again
aluable here for being English that an E
"Willingly, and a small return for your 
ses on, for all are following to the Gui
 me that day?"
 windows, darted here and there, to cut 
 the eyes went, and the thoughts. And as
rg-tm      License.  You must require su
r, as he turned to Mr. Lorry, "I may app
ce tell thee?"
For an instant, the Doctor even had his 
hat coat for this of mine. While you do 
He moves more; he is beginning to revive
e too dead. Have 'em out, there! Spies! 
that he might eat grass, when I had no b
led, "but I am determined to be peevish 
of the front, picking out transparent pl
ether as they have fallen out. It was th
with him, Mr. Lorry. He'd never have no 
s famous, too, for the pillory, a wise o
on, and, in the earth beneath a stone, o
tle log or two of fire--perhaps looking 
Postmaster, and some other taxing functi
 the people were to the spectacle of pri
ers, who had been standing there, went o
about her head. Either Saint Antoine had
 was made of hair, but which looked far 
ord bless me! How little I thought what 
engeance, and Jacques Three, were in the
XV. Knitting
ugh in number, or near enough, to fill t
ack, and tapped at his door, and softly 
o porterage and hardly that, without hav
ismissed him to bed. Then she turned out
lamplight, through the courtyard. She qu
ough the case at a great rate. He had ta
n't say it is (for I will not prewaricat
 strongest assurances. To both, he wrote
som with these two hands as I smite it n
ey came to a stop. On the crowd's openin
 t'other? Then, wot with undertakers, an
 If I had wanted to use anything save na
 every farthing porringer of husky chips
tried to help women, who bent over their
le to fly, and were set upon them to str
f course, friendly and appreciative, and
e."
"Possibly, but indeed I don't know, alth
bour is dead, my love, the darling of my
 roof," looking up to it, "shuts out the
peeding away to get shelter before the s
hington, which was altogether too extrav
annon, muskets, fire and smoke. Through 
"Had any papers been handed about among 
y noble idea, that the world was made fo
 works in formats readable by the widest
er did the moon rise with a milder radia
The supposed Evremonde descends, and the
of lightning, no eye in the throng could
ve-and-twentieth blessed birthday, of wh
ies and ale. The hoarse messenger, uncom
nds ceased to strike, and felt at her en
om England?"
tune," said a gentleman of courtly appea
ntain; all the village sleeps; all the v
e against me. I say nothing more of my s
ner of these Defarges was dark upon hims
id it as we shouldn't all flop (if it wa
had told mightily on the expression.
"Your servant," said Mr. Lorry. "Do you 
iting openly referring to it. This is a 
. Surely, the long unreal ride some prog
r! To think that there might have been a
ken to pieces, like a toy-puzzle for a y
 and myriads of small creatures--the cre
 wine-shops, croaked over their scanty m
glass. "Are you turned in a pleasant dir
day. An incidental allusion, purposely t
under his hand, utterly insensible; with
y. How do I know what injury you have do
"First," said Mr. Cruncher, who was all 
ou uncomfortable, Sydney," said Mr. Stry
Ay! Louder, Vengeance, much louder, and 
 window.
this time."
anged the leg on which he rested, as oft
, and that he was prayed to come to it. 
grave smile of earnestness, and though h
I. The Period
He smiled at her unconscious admission t
 awaiting the coming-up of the tumbrils,
It was dated from La Force, within an ho
n sight of the great stone courtyard and
"I know it well," answered Carton. "Be c
ot intelligible to the Doctor), which le
nd him, and rose, as the rain falls, imp
e me a little glass of old cognac, and a
 though red with patriotic caps, was not
ing his head.
Even as it was, she could not command he
ter's husband, and deliver him. "It all 
 the village, and galloped up the stony 
ning. But, he spoke, and it was his voic
eet compassion!"
 a struggle.
ng all around, he took his coat off, and
rg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Fou
at parting, "and take precious care of t
 of; but, I wished to relieve my own min
 the disease--a terrible passing inclina
"I shall be there before the commencemen
e had been as ignorant as she of his fat
e place where they had last been apparen
stery to wiser and honester men than he,
l my heart, was capable of better things
 loving of that husband, he might have c
n," filling his glass. "Ah! and good win
ment, as the vision of a drowning man, o
t, stumbled down the two steps, got past
rst came, I had better not see her. I ca
"He is English."
mposed, for I am naturally a poor little
n he had thought them, and the prisoner 
 don't say it is, but even if it wos. An
er, who had squeezed Death in with most 
n he saw Mr. Lorry, and was altogether i
heir betrothal, and was the one promise 
c.
"Nevertheless," pursued Darnay, rising t
ated in an unwillingness to approach the
 room, speaking so low that not a sound 
eplied the spy. "She is going to be marr
usness of the figure that could have put
n or associated in any way with an elect
esides flinging other refuse from its ow
med patriots in rough red caps and with 
 of the business, here requested Mr. Cru
Haggard Saint Antoine had had only one e
the way.
stinctive recognition of those qualities
ith his foot near to mine, ordered the w
to cover his wound.
band says in that little letter?" asked 
s it, and a Farewell.
ied, what if the door were opened and th
Devils--which you prefer--work!" Thus De
e youngest man that ever lived," said Ch
overed with dust, white as a spectre, ta
er as much as I may be able to remember 
 traversing the streets, was never known
Hundred and Five, North Tower. I knew it
expression on them; faces, rather, in a 
nd on his presence of mind, he commanded
d much, and some revulsion might have be
 with a taciturn and iron-bound visage. 
window, reading and writing, and express
"Yes."
ank another glassful.
d and equipped.
es and lines; Hunger was patched into th
 one of the trustees. His affairs, like 
f snuff, and put his box in his pocket.
A footstep in the snow. Madame Defarge. 
 himself as a sort of fairy cloak that w
t. The things that you see here, are thi
In the evening, at which season of all o
 lumbered, jolted, rattled, and bumped u
 the uniform. "Adieu!" from Defarge. And
at I love her!"
across the face.
" asked Mr. Lorry, with natural hesitati
nd already broke upon the great windows 
k Mr. Lorry into the discussion, "that y
"Charles is safe, but I cannot safely le
 doleful mind he brought to bear upon th
e winds, and Saint Antoine had got him!
I    The Shadow      Chapter IV     Calm
"'We have been to your residence,' said 
ifest, and it was so manifest, too, that
ove of a woman.
 in the evening he embraced her, and her
h something as like a sorrowful sense of
tered houses encloses its own secret; th
it, but powerless in it; seeking to exec
gain, and stole into his room; not free 
d forth to the occupation of the day.
hether it was a son who would some day a
Both Mr. Lorry and Defarge were rather d
"Charles Evremonde, called Darnay!"
l?"
ad not unfastened the bandages restraini
he one condition--fully intelligible now
seness. If I had any such possibility, e
It was a hard day, that day of being amo
his son on the question of rebuilding Te
 fell upon her knees before him, with he
mly every day, sprang up to stimulate hi
ce of showering generosity, forbearance,
 volunteers and employees expend conside
The second tumbril empties and moves on;
y coming and going, between the dominion
urely not. To return to business:--Is it
gether from day to day, that between you
French."
pe, the little man (who wore a red cap n
ened senses. Every little habitation wit
but not limited to, incomplete, inaccura
n for it. I hold you till one or other o
rset the delicate organisation of the mi
 the soldiers that he recognises me; we 
keep her down, and looked into her face.
he one promise he had still exacted on t
.
ween us and the moon on this last night.
f striving afresh, beginning anew, shaki
ine.
out. The man who had left his saw sticki
e to come."
ad heard cries proceeding from an upper 
ra something into his name that boded hi
and. O pity us, kind Heaven, and help us
 good and virtuous, and hated his brothe
"Shall I take her to a coach? I shall ne
"Will you answer his question to me then
Headlong, mad, and dangerous footsteps t
the coach."
"He is accused by Saint Antoine."
 eyes and sat silent. Except one man, wh
Responding to his softened manner, Mr. L
Charles Darnay felt it hopeless to entre
bable master. "Close them again."
m to enter. Mr. Lorry got his arm secure
Young Jerry, who had only made a feint o
ingular--and she raised her hand, as if 
He set down his glass untouched. "This i
 in this region of suspicion, that Mr. B
"And you," returned Sydney, busy concoct
ose shoes."
 consulting-room, used also as the dinin
knives, axes, pikes, every weapon that d
oner there was, he said, who had been di
ght, and swallow him--like this!"
 never knew their hard, hard history. Bu
. "Speak out, you know." (Which, by the 
he window. "He may come close; there's n
th their votes if the President were con
f you are outside the United States, che
an in all this France could have done wh
"Have you no remembrance of the occasion
ter not to mention the subject, anywhere
he way with his tribe too.
"I perceive that, happily for me, the Re
to be that profound secret and mystery t
ose bed-gown, and his throat was bare fo
d the Juryman, looking after her as she 
beauty? She was a golden-haired doll!"
ol was a vile place, in which most kinds
. He resented Mrs. Cruncher's saying gra
 the bedside, striking their boots with 
ars of her age, year after year. I have 
 midst of it, Doctor Manette was seen, p
ade his way to the outside of the bar. T
ht hearts are beating at a rate that wou
of a nightcap than in it, scrawled upon 
; all the village runs to look; they tak
ial mud, under the bright sky of the Sou
, by my heap of stones, to see the soldi
ight, where the Comedy and the Grand Ope
rk.  Contact the Foundation as set forth
from me at this moment," said Madame Def
, Evremonde," was the stolid reply. The 
was, that although they were posted as c
o comply with all the terms of the Full 
t's breathing, and avoided answering.
"Of course, it has been kept for you."
indifferent reputation, coming and going
rned Charles Darnay, "to belong to this 
ed out to the show in the streets. Barsa
had had its influence in his course.
m. I pass my whole life, miss, in turnin
ly admire the bride, and who had been mo
 that seemed unusual. Breathing more fre
ling of the court, changed neither his p
e devouring and insatiate Monsters imagi
having harshly exacted payment of his du
rd where a plane-tree rustled its green 
far from the National Palace, once (and 
resented. Who could sit upon anything in
on the Doctor, who saw none of them--the
nst him, and from this person he learned
s man's lips, first made it known to Cha
laxen wig, setting very close to his hea
umbling and labouring of the coach, adde
upt data, transcription errors, a copyri
e of the bed. There was a timid and supp
e punch, rejoined, "Why should I not app
k, and we were all so reserved, that I c
y! Get to work, get to work."
Daylight at last found them before the w
hey were even boastful of its eminence i
gave him to wear. He readily responded t
n heavy to drag over the many long leagu
 travel in the circle, nearer and nearer
ms of the Full Project Gutenberg-tm Lice
to the mist and darkness, he would have 
chief."
, I found her raving in precisely the sa
otion of her hand. She had no fear of hi
d the people poured cheerfully out as he
ght there from some neighbouring smithy,
he throat of Saint Antoine, and a forest
ht."
.
oices of men, women, and children--resou
 a great stroke of business. The rattle 
us state when it was his turn to be angr
hey might be, at any time, you know, for
daily to hammer out of the stones on the
our homes. Miss Lucie looks ill, Mr. Dar
bearded chin, and so on in regular chang
Defarge raised his head thoughtfully, as
oor instrument, and hurriedly, with an u
t House.
ctive and self-possessed, and those of h
It was a heavy mass of building, that ch
sted in taking her meals at unknown peri
andering in a wilderness, would have rem
urtyard. She quickly brought them down a
oing to be married."
 lightning, got him down into it, and st
will seize on victims of all degrees; an
"It could not be otherwise," said the pr
on the discharge of that maternal functi
nd smeared over it. "Why do you write in
mself on a world with no favour in it, w
umber had overtaken him when it was dark
s of miscellaneous criminals; now, hangi
and his hair, which was long and dark, w
"Never."
ed the towelling; and he was in a very d
"I think so, Carton, by this time."
that had long been highly objectionable,
d the Life, saith the Lord: he that beli
t she was set at naught.
Say! Would you not?"
"I think," he whispered to Miss Pross, a
 the leaves of the plane-tree moved upon
s a name of two syllables."
d carried the three spoils of the day, i
ne the status of compliance for any part
 commenced without delay in the kitchen 
Still, the Hundreds of people did not pr
ave it at three o'clock in the lightest-
ir functions, looked so extravagantly co
aven--which may have been one among othe
d, whether he would be the first, or mig
l, or on the air. The only ray of hope t
not to be shaken by distress and, danger
 she stayed them with a motion of her ha
 but not abundant. Patches of poor rye w
?"
e rest, and got him between himself and 
n, by name. The story of his pure soul w
hing the poor fellow? Between ourselves.
in the candle dripping down upon him.
nt for her child to be with her, they we
 he answered, "How should I know?"
s knee, and it contained a very little q
without change, except of horses and pac
he sight; the immortal creature that was
and that peasant family so injured by th
s. He is a good child, this mender of ro
 to her.
     Chapter II     The Grindstone      
e a short call upon his medical adviser-
hat no personal influence could possibly
 the clock struck twelve; but Doctor Man
they cast upon the multitude such glance
a Jacobin journal and feigned to pore ov
rivation, and weakness. Now that this wa
aint Antoine was to execute his horrible
ne.  For thirty years, he produced and d
ttle boy, and he said, with a radiant sm
iving my father only two years, it was y
said Mr. Lorry. "Say no more now. It may
"Remember? No, I don't remember. It was 
1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or d
ad and heart on pikes, and carried the t
by all of them at night. In a building a
xt before him--is gone; the knitting-wom
fallen on an echoless wall, or on the ai
 faces through its leaves.
oursing with spirits went on--and it did
ned out of the road, and up a blind lane
eauties of architecture in spires of chu
wife's petitions. "I ain't a going to be
e visitor watched her fingers for a few 
e Marquis. There was nothing revealed by
lls they will go far enough to find her!
ps, gay crowds, illuminated coffee-house
 Mr. Lorry, who had stood up to look for
ry, grasping his eager but so firm and s
pt watch there through the night. The pr
is renouncing by proxy the works of dark
n she came up-stairs, and touching it up
feats, through long years to come, I see
ind. Good Heaven, what was there to dism
d for the senseless stones that made the
Mr. Lorry's thoughts seemed to cloud too
 Lucie, and--Miss Lucie, do you not thin
it," croaked Jacques Three. "I have seen
I speak, had been confined in a cell kno
her lover, that she might tend and comfo
urately, that he then spelt it with perf
His message perplexed his mind to that d
There were a king with a large jaw and a
 he would have put himself in a fair way
re a man of business, too."
"As they descend the hill like madmen ru
r a patchwork counterpane, like a Harleq
nfused. "What is the matter? Lucie! Mane
y hauled him out, and presented him brea
d which still kept him so.
 not being appreciated: of his being so 
 Marquis who was not to be found.
Carton, still drinking the punch, rejoin
nod or two, he immediately went out to a
"I entreat you to observe that I have co
 Long live everybody and everything! as 
d it, a church-tower, a windmill, a fore
 off her husband's head next day. Every 
 a blessing to you, and a recompense to 
een expected with Monseigneur.
"Is it you," said Defarge, in a low voic
orry, an English gentleman then and ther
arance of strange faces of low caste, ra
nd we parted without another word on eit
seemed too big for any place, or space. 
A place of business in London like Tells
s there one left. They had all dropped o
strong idea that the coffin he had seen 
 that she bore him no malice.
"Where married?"
ntelligible now--that her father had att
 haughtily, 'There is a case of medicine
uncle; "it is not necessary to say, to d
or thrice upon the door--evidently with 
he public, and the inquiries made there 
eech; but, I don't mean any fashion of s
? Is it worth being tried for one's life
to Jerry the messenger.
int Antoine had an instinctive sense tha
r was six years old. How near to her hea
her did the people say anything; after t
iodical change into tiger form was eithe
es."
 appearance I know no more than that she
But, the suppressed manner had enough of
e harmless objects, Mr. Lorry shivered, 
the candle as if she were assisting at a
sofa where he lay on his back.
ight serve for patches to hold his poor 
t, and holds his hand. He has no curiosi
He unshaded his face after a little whil
enged, which they would henceforth bear 
"Speak for yourself, Mr. Lorry," said St
 with their two heads as near to one ano
time to be, beneath the service of her e
he reader, Madame Defarge never taking h
"Pick up that, philosopher and vendor of
tryver might be daily seen, bursting out
ble knot indeed.
The hungry man repeated, in a rapturous 
d cap.
ted no elbow-room, Tellson's wanted no l
sat knitting, knitting. Darkness encompa
te in it of Lucifer's pride, Sardanapalu
y, and which was shunned by all of them 
"Then hold your meddlesome tongue," said
r.
 he had lost two legs and an arm, and st
tive who had once done the Fairy a servi
e a certain movable framework with a sac
 terms of this agreement, you must cease
 public domain eBooks.  Redistribution i
ss my dear girl with an old-fashioned ba
into a frown of dislike and distrust, no
ad tended the bundle while it lay on the
 I solemnly declare that I am at this ti
lightened Mr. Lorry's friendly heart to 
k at me!"
 hidden, but at last he is unluckily fou
y regarded as some set-off against their
 voice underground. So expressive it was
ring to an imaginary letter of two or th
f shut up in his sanctuary by the chocol
numbers of people, if some of our docume
stimulating sense of desert or disgrace,
"Well, well," said the old clerk; "we al
n to the door, there was a child, a pret
of justice, of generosity, of the honour
idly on, or lying down chewing the cud o
ossessed, bowed to the Judge, and stood 
at had been told of, and, as they went i
way), and I feel that Miss Manette will 
He offered his hand; but his eyes did no
sionally flirting with some lighter docu
"And then breakfast, sir? Yes, sir. That
e had been clutched, that her heart coul
e conscious that it was in hers too. He 
"None. As yet, none."
rejoined:
was evidently her father; a man of a ver
d, and he thought, "They have come back!
"I am again at work upon the hill-side, 
 were pointed out in the sculptured nose
ntly making fresh additions to his stock
 of about my own age, or rather younger,
or permission to remain and assure himse
her, for she had already turned into the
s it was occupied with healthy things, t
The friends of the acquitted prisoner ha
. Not a word was spoken. I was brought h
e wandering way, "Now am I left, as if I
t in the streets. A few minutes brought 
the drunken patriot sat composedly in hi
lson's side of the tides to the opposite
"Yes. He will perish: there is no real h
 day of the year. The letter was lying b
chable witness for the Crown, to refer t
and streams had driven him within the in
rting from this courtyard? Another carri
e people are so poor."
e, and a laudable ambition where there i
 as in her childhood she had no parent, 
everything! as if he had never heard of 
enceforth bear for ever. In the stone fa
hion, and to have on her head a most won
ances--say, on a particular occasion. He
d by seven robbers, and the guard shot t
h, in fell and forest, in the vineyards 
y looking from him to look with solicitu
the great sharp female was by that time 
e in his manner, and said, "A last word,
all moneys that had been taken during he
, bars of iron and wood, knives, axes, p
ng children out of its way. At last, swo
arriage, than it could have been--nay, t
in again among ruinous buildings, solita
be ascended, before the garret story was
 daughter who would grow to be a woman."
dence, the counsel for the defendant thr
 carelessly answered; and took up a ligh
ed.
"--At the last post. How many to the Gui
er as a change from it; I feel that it i
 watch ticking a sonorous sermon under h
ll his thoughts, a turbulent and heated 
ng that name of Pross, likewise. That wa
 vivid life, there were two groups of fa
"'I do not address her brother?'
entally hanged, beheaded, and quartered,
t. Her first act was to shut them. There
k out a flash and a crash, and stood alo
 bind themselves willing slaves, to yout
nt that if it wos, it wouldn't, even the
!" croaked the Juryman.
, now that I remember, one of you has al
lar questions, in nowise directed by his
 had not been seen, since he quitted the
d back the gathering shadows of death, a
ished her patient hand in getting out, b
ow."
ith an involuntary shudder.
, rolled with exceeding smoothness down 
might think 'his life was wantonly throw
erfully in aid of his quickness and skil
" said Miss Pross, softened by the tone 
e Doctor. "Miss Manette--"
k and bearing of the man whose life alwa
"Yes, I could. I will, if you ask it."
ns snatched them from the stream of spar
i--ies!"
nce and she were far apart, did she know
Mr. Stryver shouldered his way through t
Bastille, when he had found no mention o
ss and sobriety, were standing and lying
 asking all these questions; because I a
p of stones.
ther way, I remember, and the twentieth 
ethargic, that I have thought of nothing
own under the skies that had not been so
, after rapping out its messages, as the
roperty; but--"
lived," said Charles Darnay, rather hesi
erted resources that should have made th
article of war which forbade a purpose o
e end with quiet heroism, a new action b
 in the evening, when the work of the da
Mr. Jerry Cruncher to squeeze himself in
dliest way, "that I am sorry for it on y
r, which had been at intervals clear eno
 in her breathing. "Nevertheless, you sh
 pick up any crumbs he could find or mak
 and walking with the confident tread of
Stryver was a glib man, and an unscrupul
ing his getting into the house again, fo
 jewels--I will make it the first charge
nd went out. The gentleman then beckoned
ody there would have been eternally corr
frightened compassion, if not even to ke
rue, no audience to lengthen their proce
y attracted the notice of Mr. Lorry, who
carriage started out of the village and 
or Manette to have that suppression alwa
ded whole barrels of wine; and they glid
his new visitor with an undisguised look
nd who has a great affection for them bo
"
 dressed in a brown suit of clothes, pre
its weight in his good opinion of her.
, now with a great key, now with his han
ost pathetic tones of the voice so dear 
he emigrant Evremonde?"
ots, and lying down at his length on the
with cords that were knotted behind him.
citizen." This in passing. Nothing more.
"I can't say."
gh these means, that it was difficult, o
"Oh! It is only a question of a few hour
forth for the usual examination and inqu
ntials, entries, and memoranda, are all 
ss, and at no great distance from him in
were something in that too.
n the drier parts of the legal race.
 Monseigneur, at the posting-houses, as 
umber of horizontal lines I could draw a
o so much; unenlightened and undirected,
th a radiant smile, "Dear papa and mamma
t o' this here dismal risk! Forbid it, m
ow the French coast to be seen, became a
, if they kept too far apart. They had a
ng tackle of that nature. Disposing thes
t, faded away. I see him, fore-most of j
Carton terminated the conversation here,
ith heavy dark tables. These had been oi
 came, and the shadows of the leaves of 
e whole subject."
answered, as to himself, by the surrende
atin' of you fur to bear in mind that wo
d importunity. They are sought by so man
s of the day, in Wolf-procession through
nxiety with them all, and to come at it 
 before it, that the two beholders cover
, the gentleman was of repute in Paris. 
fully with mine and your own. Now, obser
pains to be agreeable, who knows better 
ooden shoes that were clumsy even to the
and they caught him shrieking; twice, he
lle for judgment. Otherwise, the governo
he witness to tell him whether what happ
m. The new era began; the king was tried
he permission of the copyright holder fo
 President rang his bell to quiet them. 
re him in his accustomed clothing and as
ow. It will depend on you, and it could 
I, of how much importance), that I shoul
madame.
wing. It was within half an hour or so o
uman race. It superseded the Cross. Mode
"What is it?" asks Mr. Lorry, looking ou
 He is bound as before, and in his mouth
filled up his glass again: which was a l
cular meaning in these sulky corroborati
ove of dim wicks swung in a sickly manne
ally, accomplished the interment of the 
eyes. There's not a fork or a spoon in t
s of the people before them, to help the
No. Ever kicked downstairs? Decidedly no
r, which they tore in a frenzy. It died 
remember where it was. What was it? No b
"Nothing but supper now," said the mende
ind.
e stones of the little street. Workmen d
tte emerged from the gate, there was a g
nto the quiet corner in Soho, bent on se
"But it's not my business," said he. And
lse name. That's a very good card. Mr. B
ubble of the corn, along the fruitful ba
ey, and more drafts were honoured in fiv
"'Doctor Manette, formerly of Beauvais,'
Glancing at his hands, which were discol
 an inquiring smile, and delicately poin
 mother of two children withal, this lie
ing their medical eyes at that tradesman
he dull distance.
s, as if they were falling to pieces at 
reds of hands; torn, bruised, panting, b
ime."
 a part of this work or any other work a
napkin from his right arm to his left, d
"For gracious sake say something else be
through her long association with a Fren
hen was it done, Mr. Barsad?"
mpatient movement from one of the two pa
nd shrivelled; trees at a distance, fire
and sound, and still, just as he had las
eddy that turned and turned purposeless,
riking of the church clock so terrified 
or, like a swift messenger rousing those
rough a trap in it. For, people then pai
"Bust me, if she ain't at it agin!"
s shoemaking tools and the unfinished sh
It was a poorer hand than he suspected. 
father had told her that he found her mo
 descried in the imperfect light one of 
 am sure it will be better than our goin
s' prison? Didn't see what that had to d
 to help him to any other, Mr. Barsad pa
Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Red
carried it on to the sea.--"Like me."
 last, and closed the door.
efitting the state of a marquis in a lux
nd women there, to see to the poor live 
 ride some progress of disease that had 
 chair they had among them, and which th
hand.
of the place where you are located also 
or.
worthy of Ladybird, to come here looking
"There! I beg your pardon!" said Stryver
Mr. Lorry's business eye read in the spe
ck:
Defarge looked gloomily at his wife, and
."
 no difference in him. Another pause of 
nswer, until he remembered having spoken
l tissue of the life of her home.
ell of the tranquil house in the corner,
and looked at Monsieur the Marquis. Ther
p mud is on either side. Sometimes, we s
rants who were known to have made friend
th, and South, be that as it would; and 
 Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with a
ught me to England. I am almost sure it 
aw for everybody.
itizen, even better than I, of how much 
house, summoned him to come forth for pe
 that they never had, to accomplishments
ered for. I denounce them to Heaven and 
, "and I'll do it. If this fellow is a g
l the time, our overfraught hearts are b
water."
d air which clouded the naturally handso
 little counter, in conversation with th
sman, it wouldn't suit _your_ line of bu
have seen with my eyes."
"Go on, Jacques," said Defarge.
ook place in the relapse?" asked Mr. Lor
"I ask your pardon," said the Doctor, in
es, and of their disposition and prepara
e, to a blending of all the three, with 
 way I am, or I have been, trustee of on
 After trying it, Stryver, C. J., was sa
"I tell you," said Jerry, "that you buri
ravat for this of mine, that coat for th
low.
have been of that silent and sullen and 
 peace, and yet there was no difference 
Mr. Cruncher's apartments were not in a 
d repeated in the old low voice:
"Well, then; don't meditate nothing. You
r XIV    The Honest Tradesman      Chapt
"From this prison here of horror, whence
my father," turning her eyes lovingly to
At every juryman's vote, there was a roa
 additions, and arrive at dissatisfied r
To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm miss
f his chair and his books--these, and th
 reason--and no life can possibly be sav
by turns, at Mr. Lorry and at Defarge, s
eeing much of it. They told me a curious
they dropped off one by one, and lights 
uperiority to this woman's weakness, whi
But, there remained a broken country, bo
is is she?"
 seemed to be decidedly opposed to a ros
o Paris, there were sheltered from the w
 slumbering bears or dogs; the two outla
peasants suspended their operations to l
 my faithful service, I bring back the r
 a smile.
The discreet Mr. Lorry said, in a sample
e my poor mother's trust that first brou
as pleased to call it) than Mr. Cruncher
that he feared to detach himself lest he
made a great impression; but, as he proc
 he knew it was needless--to console her
 he had put the fact in plea and proof, 
n it. A memorable storm of thunder and l
ain that, with my knowledge?"
 thunder. "Here they come, fast, fierce,
darlings!"
eet by a high wall and a strong gate. Th
 and leave me."
ight to help them out of it and they pas
"Well, sir!" cried Mr. Lorry, thoroughly
rquis; but only elicited from his own wi
ther.
e, of the line that was never to break--
into a window, and of speaking to him wh
ulled at it until it was in a bright glo
e concentrated on the ceiling of the cou
cheerful, useful; but my poor history pe
nd his body burned alive, because he had
erforming, displaying or creating deriva
 crooked town of Dover hid itself away f
rench literature. In this age, he would 
e of good things, gentle things, even ma
ith both her hands.
that the Judge in the black cap pronounc
 manner was less satisfied than his word
ft, along with two of the four men who h
 to me, sir?"
, if she had been ordered to the axe to-
lay at the top of six or eight loaded ho
friend now sixty-two years of age, a mis
 you must not expect to do it, or you wi
he back of her head against the head-boa
d wood fire (the blighted and unfruitful
tuary in their hearts, and in the hearts
es. I have observed his face. I have obs
A great uproar took place in the court, 
imney-sweep driving the hearse--advised 
t cure for headache, it infallibly preve
ne must escape. We have not half enough 
 Mr. Lorry. When they were alone, Mr. Lo
long low sigh, and hold their breath aga
 he cried Long live the King, Long live 
houlder like a ghostly bailiff.
ch of these motives such extraordinary s
y-coach was called, and the father and d
"Plots. Though the just Heaven knows tha
es were gently carried in your heart. Ma
1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of 
 "It must burn."
mply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 
uiline nose an extra inclination to one 
"Here he is," said the Doctor, entering 
dear sir," said Stryver; "say no more ab
hing."
age! Business! The worst will be over in
er a pause:
ars.
ness necessitated your seeing "the House
-house gate. It was hard by the fountain
ying your husband to disobey him on the 
rs; that was merely a coincidence. He di
revent this arrest."
, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and emp
mb were mingled with them also, and both
arge himself, already begrimed with gunp
any additional terms imposed by the copy
tor into a guard-room, smelling of commo
Far and wide lay a ruined country, yield
is file last updated: January 23, 2011]
nd. At first, they were read as D. I. C.
they were alone. Eye to eye, voice to vo
lfactory sense was by no means delicate,
plain, that we suppose it to have been a
ence.' I was guarded in my answer, for I
tionally disconcerting to have madame kn
ner of occasionally clasping his head in
ine; black hair; complexion dark; genera
roud, these Nobles; but we common dogs a
(injurious to himself) had instantly fol
"Monsieur Charles, whom I expect; is he 
 make itself strangely visible by some l
.
Footsteps in the stone passage outside t
s popular objection to this funeral, whi
a public place, but not being a poet, mu
oughtfully away.
im so far to arouse the rocking figure b
possible to be there while the wood-sawy
lt towers with them, drinkers drew figur
hut them. There were four in the room, a
"Let us hope so," said the uncle. "Detes
Gutenberg License included with this eBo
to approach the subject, that Charles Da
here. And yet his wife trembled, and a v
pe of Monsieur Defarge: but, a smoulderi
re; and when he brought his strength to 
"Yesterday. And you?"
ould you tell her so for me, with my fer
om the garden, and change them into anyt
 honour to a dirty procession of monks w
which was new to the observation of Char
 That is not my name. I am Ernest Defarg
n secret, at first, and it has lasted bu
ine-shop; had received from the watchful
er as it is."
cognac. Madame Defarge poured it out for
g at the prisoner the beery breath of a 
 private place there, and earned his own
 than he took to his noble heels.
     Chapter XII    The Fellow of Delica
ised her, and supported her head. Yet, t
 and wide with great enjoyment, while th
eople, carried by another current, would
The lights were nearly all extinguished 
and act, every vice and virtue, of every
 of gripping fingers were deep in her fa
w departed quickly; the sun and the Marq
olutely Dead in Law.
eary are at rest!"
trades, and stone urns, and stone flower
ient for the purpose) was commenced with
o them. "He made shoes, he made shoes, h
s face there was a deeper shade than the
ul years, to grant me any tidings of my 
 by herself to follow as she had propose
nt my calling the reckoning, and our par
 you will remember, my own. I wish to te
ing I should ever hear in this life."
xious to have your opinion, in confidenc
pon the second word.)
 the door, and held her, clinging to him
t, Mr. Lorry."
"If it is?" repeated his wife.
s distance from my place of residence in
u in that connection, and having a reaso
as arose out of _her_ private topics of 
pouring all about his ears, like a troub
 on him. By-and-bye, they went into the 
ct and circumstantial--and that I write 
taken back to the guard-house, where oth
 is best that these people should know t
ame. I describe everything exactly as it
arton.
red-hot wind, driving straight from the 
uation, Carton came out of those closer 
nchman born? You are a wise counsellor."
 slight a thing would overset the delica
imself which made the interview unlike a
"Since I must say so, I know it."
"Let me interrupt you for a moment. Had 
IX. The Gorgon's Head
stool, at that there Bar, sets that ther
g their Rights to keep us in their groun
"Miss Manette, I am a man of business. I
rnal dog's who has just left us?"
et, to have madame in the crowd in the a
uppose? I say, when you began it, it was
lf up to take his rest on its dainty cus
ing. Turn me in some other direction bef
put up with it, Aggerawayter, and what d
ne highwayman, who despoiled the illustr
But there was no harm in his way of sayi
t the suicidal vengeance of the Revoluti
 wife released him, and stood looking af
seemed to escape, and all spoilt and sic
nstant death if any secret nook remained
Good Miss Pross! As if the estrangement 
"As I was prepared to hear, sir."
"'Doctor, they are very proud, these Nob
ress, and his face (which Mr. Lorry coul
porary intoxication, that he cried Long 
ss not only stopped him on the highway t
ich had now no ebb, but was always on th
For some months past, Miss Pross and Mr.
spy, curiously in dissonance with his os
ings, and why not Legislation's? Accordi
pies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic 
risingly long, went to the winds, and Sa
 account for his silence, Mr. Lorry had 
 of a chief actor in a scene of great in
ced, pumped, and white-silk stockinged, 
Not so like (the witness said) as that h
"You know the Old Bailey well, no doubt?
 himself (morally and physically) into c
ome prisons, and carried to her through 
 quiet; and he lay asleep, his white hai
t is always preparing, though it is not 
 great pass, could see a world if it wer
"And has left me," answered the nephew, 
 the two cases to which I had been summo
led in my mind with what I had heard and
last look of my dear mother's eyes, whic
the nearest street corner where one of t
engeance stooped, and the jar of a drum 
es of pride to faces of anger and pain; 
to the outer presence of Saint Antoine, 
iage dashed through streets and swept ro
ehead with his hand, and beat his foot n
The accused, who was (and who knew he wa
 her--your wife, dear Darnay."
"You have laid me under an obligation to
en Thread
o strange it was to him to act in anythi
The populace cried enthusiastically, "No
 aspect, is so shattered and made drunk 
o it from between his finger and thumb, 
he red stain on the stone floor, and the
"For the truth. O dear, good, compassion
 or even accusation, in your native coun
nswer, that they took fright at his bewi
 a back room across a second staircase, 
cie had occupied.
erits of the cards should not rest solel
"'If it had been otherwise;'" Carton's h
ded to herself, as she resumed her knitt
 save them all."
"I know this messenger, guard," said Mr.
e walls, and the eight great towers, and
ors were opened in succession, and final
ace turned away, and his eyes bent on th
idelity to himself and his family, stare
living, and of my mother who is dead, yo
s hand, for his shoemaker's knife. It la
 and quartered, by everybody there, neit
le Lucie sat by her grandfather with her
he two, being angry likewise, struck the
he gentleman's, all negligent indifferen
, sprinkled about. The day was very hot,
e woman and girl who formed the staff of
at it. In the midst of the action he wen
ocent deceit of which they were profound
sently be summoned for to-morrow, and re
 with them signally. He always remembere
ll on the table, "and accept your natura
rciful to my husband. For my child's sak
The spy looked round at the two gentleme
ch mourning coach there was only one mou
ions, Mr. Stryver had begun cautiously t
ted liar who committed the assault, but 
ubstituting, as he became more practised
The officiating undertakers made some pr
oemaker replied:
.
e need to ring the tocsin by-and-bye.
 came down in a fantastic dancing attitu
 saw standing to receive him by the tabl
d seven hundred and seventy-five, did bu
iver sparkled under it.
 this hour last night.'
he character of his mind, to be always i
o, I cannot spare him! You are engaged a
-a Doctor."
 ashy and solemn visage, "them poor thin
 on each knee, and a loud watch ticking 
set it in motion again; the women who ha
 his complacent friend.
hat all was lost.
.
er expression.
ceived a kick on the top of a staircase,
hine readable form accessible by the wid
come to a cluster of poor cottages, not 
oner of half an hour already counted the
"In the name of the assembled companions
; the lion for the most part reclining w
e," returned The Vengeance.
y the light of his. I see the blots I th
"I can buy pen, ink, and paper?"
e, in Paris, where it was spilled. It ha
less I am, as you have brought me! If I 
"The time is short, Evremonde," said the
th morning of his suspense, he was start
eir contrivances, half English and half 
r?"
raph 1.C below.  There are a lot of thin
he following singular question:
tors started, as he turned upon her with
nderstood one another, and proceeded.
 with which I could intersect them." He 
He had naturally repressed much, and som
triot patrols on the watch on all the ro
n straight lips, and the markings in the
e-dyed pieces of the cask, licking, and 
 Monsieur the Marquis clapped his hand f
adame, nodding firmly; "but my dear! You
 in thinking how little he had for suppe
e Bank that the gentleman would explain 
illage, up the hill, and down the hill, 
dings; nobody had known of it. He was un
ne of his stained shoes jerked off his f
s supper. He was half way through it, wh
ink now and then that there is a man who
unter. A third man got up and went out.
gan to roll and surge in bed, until he r
n drove as if he were charging an enemy,
f that kind of beauty which not only see
the trees and to the fountain, that the 
"You shall not get off in that way," rej
ood plain dinner and good wine: while Ca
 I think of the expression, than I shoul
 of Ma'amselle Manette?"
r afterwards, seemed to be concentrated 
d in a cell known as One Hundred and Fiv
d) for treason? But, Mr. Stryver replied
led by the rustle of the plane-tree in t
son's wanted no embellishment. Noakes an
"'A crazed young common dog! A serf! For
 across that very Channel, one cold time
ook, "you will be answered to-morrow. No
"I am a little tired," her husband ackno
"Are you dying for him?" she whispered.
enounce? France may be, but is the prope
-shop.
iful mother, you have, my son. You've go
ed, and so did the stock of rum and bran
 and men. Some, seated with drooping hea
nd large widely opened patient eyes, ros
ontentious hand, opening his eyes wider,
"If so be as you're quick, sir."
e remarked), this is the story of your r
cter about Madame Defarge, from which on
de it very quiet indeed. The panting of 
."
s way through the law, like some great e
t diversity of signals that he had never
ces of mixing them?"
 and if you meant it all, it would be of
rge to his wife, and kissed one of the h
all trades and professions, and not leas
orted by the Furies, was rapidly diminis
and often gave him drink-money, which he
 red flag, and to the back of it they ha
rities; the two bad sources combined mad
y passed her over the seats in the hall 
"Give me your arm, my love. Pass from he
was I who said so, but you naturally thi
he Cow with the crumpled horn in the hou
ng to the door. Let me kiss my dear girl
ee from that misfortune, however."
velled tree of Liberty, or all drawn up 
it was his voice; he took the prisoner's
 entered on the routine of his avocation
ques Four. He will tell you all. Speak, 
any one, the ability to do any work requ
 I don't care an English Twopence for my
ould I never see you again, dear Solomon
ain watchfully and softly stealing down;
eyes that looked at him but watchfulness
ark, face thin, long, and sallow; nose a
 a well-made shoe when he sees one. Show
), the real wickedness and guilt of his 
ll describe as the elder brother, coming
 it in the Bank windows, for all who ran
sten to the Evening Paper, you inside th
uncher?"
"Is it not--forgive me; I have begun the
d and unopened letter before him, asked 
e Abbaye--in fact, had rather passed out
ts usefulness, he believed.
lerated the odd-job-man. The house had a
es observable on familiar things which m
le.
e to let that carriage pass, apprehensiv
 be taken down and sliced before his own
called to the driver to stop.
 out, for she saw a figure standing in t
ed with confidence on the jury to come a
oes, as an unruly charger, whip-correcte
m in gazing at the prison roof and grate
 the children draw water! Who can gossip
ed to have left them in perfect safety, 
led with eight inside and a dozen out, w
 right in the conversation we had. My op
thful Jerry were as restlessly watchful 
ll on your way to the poor wronged gentl
 at secret weapons in his breast or wher
.
another grain of cough, and raised her e
"I wonder," said Mr. Lorry, pausing in h
"That was a rare point, Sydney, that you
Thus, had he come through the hours, to 
 come back." Charles Darnay shook his he
it; how, nevertheless, it rested upon no
it from the Tribunal. In every line of t
life to the chances of a refusal than th
ng debated the point in his mind, and Mr
ou may say yes, Jerry."
and choke you for half a guinea."
to die, fell under the sentence, as if s
 holds and the wind sets tolerable fair.
, and a mole's blindness--but it had dro
il he was clear of the Old Bailey; for, 
d its inundation of the courts and passa
se pecuniary Mangle."
-puzzle for a young Devil, and was put t
s gone. Lucie should be spared the pain 
legal race.
 devilry--a healthy pastime changed into
d not that faculty of extracting the ess
or hours; soldiers and police often pass
ight. Thenceforth, to secure his good wi
en hair from the cheek, and his other ha
is son, whose head was garnished with te
-table was done with, they all moved to 
es of her own, checked the serving man i
 the street, out of the street into a co
but because the hill, and the harness, a
e Marquis crossed a hall grim with certa
ired himself. The trial had lasted all d
nd addresses.  Donations are accepted in
"Monseigneur, the good God knows; but I 
Sydney Carton looked at his punch and lo
, gloomily, "that I believe our name to 
, Monsieur Defarge started and became de
onduct their Greatnesses, and myriads of
ral, he forced all these changes upon hi
 with a fair sea voyage, and a fair land
 could, and the mender of roads fanned h
Eternal Judgment-seat.
 no longer cherish in his bosom, on the 
t of it; the rest was open, to the ridge
ave looked at her from my prison-window,
, and was at work.
For a few seconds he faintly struggled w
at I had collected no rent; that I had h
rom the crowd to take a hurried peep at 
door.
e coach stopped, and they kept close com
 mind, she had no mind in that direction
ding look which made him old, had been u
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive F
nk?"
ject, and if it had carried me to death 
e set expression on it. The nose, beauti
, standing about in their depressed mann
 most unpromising of men, was Stryver's 
n, we were all going direct the other wa
 at her own early grave; and thoughts of
ation. How did you come by it? When did 
had never left it. He and his books were
y stealth, for it is afraid. But it alwa
d something to them," he spoke here in h
butchered and torn asunder, yielded the 
now and frost of winter, in the bitter w
 other captured Bastille memorials borne
 clothes, "if I ain't, what with piety a
" Changeless and hopeless, the tumbrils 
oes then, there would arise the sound of
es hardly ever to say what is set down f
"God knows it is a shame!"
"It is enough, my husband," said Madame 
 Darnay, mysteries arise out of close lo
"Apparently the English advocate is in a
a knowledge of him. It thrilled him with
nto infants' mouths; others made small m
d his valet to his own bedroom.
iss Pross; "_you_ are."
 nose, and the lengthening of the fine s
ran into death according to rule, time a
half apologetic shrug. "We shall not see
s sufficiently remarkable to elicit a wo
ow assure Lucie that her husband was no 
f more relieved and encouraged than he r
e bosom of its burden, he would have mod
y my time. You told me you had a proposa
as he could, with the relish of fraterna
"Alas, no, Monseigneur! But he lies yond
 the white head that bent low over the s
 crowd's opening the coach doors, the on
hat made him start.
"If you please, sir."
se, dark aspect, presided over these.
"Here's a man of business--a man of year
and the rush-candles of the village gutt
 They came, and the shady house was sunn
im kindly, and so did Lucie. But, Miss P
ask me why I am sorry that a man who ins
, and several maids and the landlady, we
rything is stopped."
The words were still in his hearing as j
e," said Solomon, making a dab at Miss P
he considered that neither Lucie nor her
r. "And here he wrote 'a poor physician.
, the room had the odd interest for the 
sh, ran:
romise bloodshed, held by Defarge's arm 
 and beat at the great door, like a swif
r. The looks of all of them were dark, r
 mother's a nice woman, young Jerry, goi
tes--as he brought these circumstances i
would be there--and at this stage of the
indow and the door. But, you understand 
ing the perplexity of the fingers for th
ts of the two great towers of Notre-Dame
ss him for me!"
one to tie a bunch of grass upon his bac
 also, and both were audible to Lucie, i
inter of me. No, you wicked foreign woma
clearly, and teach me how to be a little
"Will you wake me, before departing? I h
 Charles Darnay made some mention of thi
s Darnay, if there were--"
s last? Bah! I mock you."
he obligation I was conferring on my fri
lace was, for imitations of the question
cination. The form that was to be doomed
as fervently to-morrow?"
destination. The illuminated village had
"Hold!" cried Defarge, reddening a littl
 sighing: "yes! The same Sydney, with th
e moment. When the heavy drag had been a
hen we misuse it, it is worth that effor
tyle of life, with no other as a change 
 manifest.
rks.
r care that his daughter took him, accom
ng to tell you something that will rathe
, and clasped the hand that delivered hi
ough his white hair, and wring them with
treets. Of a strong and fearless charact
ether what happened once, might happen t
that Charles Darnay seemed to stand in a
he precise time required, in the coffee-
erent order of creature dying there, and
ater, and there was not a moment's inter
thoughtful manner, "that one might be li
o respect it."
"Nothing yet."
op on the pavement before he answered, "
s arm, as she sat by him, and the other 
y papers went up-stairs into a Barmecide
"Only one thing more," said Mr. Lorry, l
rely saying, "Follow me, Evremonde!" and
his further pleasure for half an hour: s
me you to me, in Saint Antoine, and we w
ght one day be consolatory to her. Other
ine) has been dead several years. I atte
r regions, and always acquitted herself 
"It is possible," said the uncle, with g
 amidst the warm commendations of the au
lips, white with what they suppressed; n
wn crisply-curling short dark hair. He w
at may not be even safe for you."
The shoemaker looked up as before, but w
 vaguely foreseen and contended against,
ull of lodgers, and the door stood ajar 
ss, apprehensive that it might otherwise
rough them all, Mr. Lorry, smilingly obs
now," said Mr. Lorry.
avour of one of them remaining. But, as 
"I prefer to form my own opinion, withou
"He first laughed at my words, and then 
ndy, and rum, and sugar, and lemons.
took him, accompanied by a neat brown mo
 no record or legend of any prisoner wit
urned to walk again.
n one of the chateau's four extinguisher
ng Spirit ever arose among the people ou
 sheep--whom many fell away from in drea
usly, revealing to the said French Lewis
ts and swept round corners, with women s
ccasion.)
imated his heart. If there had been any 
nd putting aside the golden hair from th
 shortness.
ude the cold, one half of this door was 
he great window of the bed-chamber of Mo
and the like, was dim and dark: for, the
rnity, or Death.
uch regret it! But take courage; several
his shoulder, and soothed him to sit dow
int of interest. Two gaolers, who had be
e fainter hope there was--or so Darnay t
ok his head at him in the oddest manner,
lone.
Section 3.  Information about the Projec
"Him, man, with whom I have exchanged. Y
y well."
 voluble Vengeance protested in her shri
The answers to this question were variou
nd assure himself that his son-in-law wa
:
a horrible enjoyment from the deadly nat
 air, with a red upon it that the sun ha
d the thronging feet. For, the footsteps
r future; I look only to sharing your fo
ge as to his having seen Her"--he never 
ace; but, Miss Pross, with her head down
f great blue-flies were swarming about t
ng in a stone terrace before the princip
"Yes, go on."
lt assured that if she should take it in
resh in his mind, he was strongly remind
e my life."
rging upon the hour of closing the Bank,
rouble her."
ensate itself and the nation for a chanc
fear and hope for our precious creatures
. Let him break into as many pieces as h
ly thanked. Mr. Stryver, a man of little
"I want," said Defarge, who had not remo
or, rising, and laying his hand upon her
 Darnay requested the speaker to take no
The stone faces on the outer walls stare
 a full refund of any      money paid fo
r anxious consideration, that Miss Pross
on. Think, dear friend!"
ence to the merits of an individual case
f to her; by the aid of Heaven I will do
ernate format must include the full Proj
he Queen. It is Defarge whom you see her
o the house. She was not unfrequently th
 have begun the question on my lips--a p
back again to what they were, thou power
crew. Whatever tools they worked with, t
 and the mercies of these people--"
popular high-shouldered shaggy black spe
ghting at the outer gate (which we found
it of the hill?"
 her shrieks, never stumbled in the dist
ourney to-morrow night."
en, of justice, of generosity, of the ho
emed, under the windows; some, as it see
on was left alone. Straining his powers 
d the wheel for the descent, and open th
 to her knitting again, and hummed a lit
 them gloomy. No vivacious Bacchanalian 
 scratched a calendar on this stone. Wha
a little moment."
ette," said Darnay, modestly but firmly,
 head drawer at the Royal George Hotel o
Again the mender of roads went through t
 few words of explanation in the French 
in London from his college occupation, h
his way of saying this: it was said laug
He was at a loss how to answer, until he
 may be placed over him to show where he
between a father and child. I know, Doct
ace is national property now, and used a
hose fragments with care, Jacques. And s
e, but done--done, see you!--under that 
but love and consolation.
ood. He had taken it up, and was stoopin
 fortress on it used as a prison. Round 
the Judge, as he said something fiercely
ame of every inmate must be legibly insc
e secured to myself the love and attachm
s he spoke.
"Don't look!" cried Mr. Lorry. "Don't lo
r very slowly. Some of these people knew
called to life?"
ED."
, many and many a time; but, this time w
"But, consider. Is he fit for the journe
ings about him!"
 with Sydney Carton, he always had his p
; if he had suddenly and silently disapp
is he? I demand of Heaven, will he not c
I was brought here, I was brought to my 
At length the new postilions are in thei
ught, as regularly, as if they had all b
to show me that the home of her married 
cacy and politeness, that in the pressur
ith Tellson's. Death is Nature's remedy 
ne another to get next at the sharpening
ed Carton.
tarted, and resumed, in the manner of a 
ay there, if you please, a little moment
uld bring you to misery, bring you to so
 be imposed upon."
"About. Good!"
sure of what you say; if you really have
ed to complying with the laws regulating
as going to bed, and looked back from th
e?'
xe--a woman--had asked at the foot of th
itary knowledge; naval officers with no 
nseigneur, hear my petition! My husband 
 quick mistake, and when I make one it t
ded him.
"Tell the Wind and the Fire where to sto
ter de cachet would have sent me to some
as his carriage stopped, and the great d
ill which ground old people young, shive
"Carton, there is no escaping from this 
packet and tried to secure it in his bre
lf to their dear child, he adjured her, 
nd-forty by years, and they differed pri
ght have been a Mrs. Lorry?" asked the g
vidual fears for his own personal safety
aragraph to the      Project Gutenberg L
es in gloomy abstraction sought the grou
n this electronic work within 90 days of
e again withdrew himself to his housetop
which had a tendency in it to dark doubt
y introduce the odd circumstance connect
ws are there with the rest. At midday, t
ree. "Why stop? There is great force in 
Pross lost in amazement and agitation, b
istribution of electronic works in forma
ughter who has become a woman, there is,
me a call. For, I tell you," here he add
be! I adjure you, do not recall that!"
hicles so closely that they came to a st
. "I don't care about fortune: she is a 
there was a mirror, to throw the light d
prison sign of Death--a raised finger--a
derers, and profligates; in the distant 
d very little else to save, or they migh
f fardens--half fardens! no, nor yet his
 be dangerous for Charles yet."
rst, sickness, misery, oppression and ne
rew yet heavier and heavier every day. T
uld meet in Heaven, to comfort her fathe
t on a low bench, stooping forward and v
ll see me at the head of women, by-and-b
 the one wigged gentleman who looked at 
m behind his chimneys at the darkening f
the speaker.
ly hard to have crowds and multitudes of
 Miss Manette to have the task of being 
ght in, she turned a look upon him, so s
 and touched him on the shoulder like a 
ice himself, and pulled him off the benc
as he stood upon the bridge listening to
o hear some disparagement attempted of t
freely distributed in machine readable f
meet the Doctor as if nothing unusual ha
ld-fashioned bachelor blessing, before S
l, dim, crooked man.
-they were now standing by the hearth--"
up again, and haunted that neighbourhood
ner chancing to look up in his hurried w
, and touched his lips.
d Miss Pross, "and I was an English four
herein, as momentary lights glanced into
nt down into the courtyard. There, they 
was given him to eat and drink, and work
ue by the wayside, slowly tending toward
dicated by his other parent.
is a fellow, who, infected by the most p
rive away!"
 years of age. For answer he repeated, w
theirs, any laying of heads upon pillows
t his wife, and gave no other answer tha
thing that the decree bore date since hi
ndor of wine."
with the public enemy was not a correspo
 on--and it did a world of good which ne
nt had happened in getting it out of a c
ere business relations, when you reflect
Made curious by seeing you in that conne
a precious time of it. We want wine, amo
is mender of roads, called Jacques. Give
assion for us!"
u could hardly blink at it in the dismal
"Was He a spy?" asked Mr. Cruncher.
eye, as it looked kindly at her, "that D
the passengers beat loud enough perhaps 
"Dear Doctor Manette, always knowing thi
this on his mind, which was enough to ca
her, Doctor?'
our wretched crops, and forbidden for ou
s not worthy of such a daughter, which i
rindstone      Chapter III    The Shadow
 monsieur?" asked Defarge in a whisper.
nguish in giving it they had witnessed, 
always retained Jerry for this service: 
er XXIII  Fire Rises      Chapter XXIV  
u had a proposal; what is it? Now, it is
 hurried, or to have too much to do?"
ner, he bestowed a parting defiance on M
 paper. The rider's horse was blown, and
"Am I not prosperous?" asked Stryver.
broken reply was, "Wait! It would kill m
eally ought to think about a nurse."
They were discussing this question, and 
 and his chateau.
ristocrat government there, he had actua
utenberg-tm, including how to make donat
ient places of business. Tellson's (they
Jerry had just enough forehead to knuckl
 the ears, and knocking the back of her 
nd forwards betwixt London and Paris, si
! Let us draw further back. Hush!"
ch feebler sympathy and humility, while 
s, that the spies among the assembled de
your tongue. It ought to be, it must be,
lcove in the rear of the immortal boy, a
.
 present use. I see a beautiful city and
d on the coach door, replying to a group
 glancing round from the sofa where he l
n danger of my life at the hands of the 
he door when he got there.
rted from my breast. I know from terribl
as if the Stryver head had been butted i
siness day; in short, I have no feelings
n to what is to follow. In the meanwhile
es.  Special rules, set forth in the Gen
, from some time--I cannot even say what
hatever of my real danger; but I was con
 so much confidence in what you say, tha
 the hushing dust on all the roads. The 
at!" interrupted the other, rolling his 
 you wait for us a little, outside the d
n her memory alone, she would not lose a
set, his right hand clenched on his brea
"Yes, thank you."
 not initials, but the complete word, DI
l on him, was he in most respects--or in
the water, and partially wringing them o
from hunters, he was still in his metemp
is reference. He only seemed to contrast
er another way.
sed to think of rising to be a lion. Str
fatal to them, and that they have no par
tte was seen, pale and trembling, standi
e his words were in her ears; and she re
The Doctor turned his eyes upon that man
to open the door and alight before I cam
 believe, again and again, most ferventl
ble was Monseigneur, that the Comedy and
ountain not far away; to whom the mender
 fast. A revolutionary tribunal in the c
 in it. No! Not he! I'll have my head to
 Defarge, looking down at the white head
e had relinquished them of his own will,
 sky in a new way--to wit, for ever, fro
 of closing.
 her left hand, Madame Defarge said noth
her in this difficulty with these hinds,
 with her work, several times during the
atural and how plain it is, my dear, tha
ruded themselves over and over again, co
stockings fitted sleek and close, and we
d trying, to get Charles Darnay set at l
ble to think so well of me, as to urge n
"But for you, dear stranger, I should no
rsation with the Defarges, man and wife.
 a souring, for its influence on the moo
ward. When they had ascended forty steps
eatening the sky is."
hen there was no drawbridge, and he saw 
ake the verdict back to the bank. You ar
"Oh, Solomon, dear Solomon!" cried Miss 
luence you to alter the course on which 
azement.
 wholly transferred to them by Mr. Lorry
wn to and believed in where the Cross wa
 eye upon him, soon afterwards. In arran
d the piercing quality of her shrieks, n
 all left Paris. On the road (except at 
nner. I am as rickety as a hackney-coach
 depressed manner, and whispering low, b
g forward with a strained attention.
nearest Section Committee. Look over you
 signs (and they were almost as many as 
ase the means of writing, and a light, h
h of belief, it was the epoch of incredu
ferer was borne down, one cannot say for
 looked steadily at the man whose life w
 at night, when the lamplighter had let 
, by us overhead there, walking up and d
k with horror, to disclose them to his M
manful soldier, Two fierce hours.
upon my honour, I had no intention of re
e uncle, with great calmness. "For the h
w's while to peck at, on a heap of stone
fer and condole with the undertakers. Th
r to be released, or (in a few cases) to
cusation against him was answered, as to
comfort. I am thankful!" said Mr. Lorry.
t is set down for them.
ucie, clinging to the old man.
meditations on mortality had touched his
ises for other boys, and seldom did my o
d upon the country road. At two-thirds o
iterature. He had returned when he did, 
ey talked, and the plane-tree whispered 
quis--very sweetly indeed.
n early job to begin with!"
"Let us be reasonable," said the spy, "a
he exact figure that Defarge had had in 
unbearable agony, denounce to the times 
r breast to calm her and keep her down, 
olers moving about, who would have been 
to. I suppose so. I don't know."
"You will see. But, what then? Other peo
"So much the better. His name?"
 Mr. Lorry, drying his eyes, "you are ri
erested in the lady as to express a stro
et time were a momentary fancy, or a dre
re not in disgrace with the Court, and h
 in his cell, counting its measurement, 
farge gone, like a shadow over the white
berg.org/9/98/
 me."
 by lookers-on up at high windows, darte
Her father answered, with a cheerful fir
f waste, mismanagement, extortion, debt,
 than life, nothing can be so dear to a 
ing past, present, and to come."
nour of odd jobbing till I'm grey at it,
 of feeling in that kind of way, Sydney,
e was not one among them more to be drea
de by him who had spoken second. 'Doctor
 red caps heaving about him, and casting
The end of the second book.
got to the end of a bottle, when a rattl
 of day! To be buried alive for eighteen
little household, as in very many others
d here, often, and too often. Your life 
iking you. I wish you would forget it."
y the beckoning of their conductor, he d
s; that, they never could tolerate the i
loosed from his neck asked her for a kis
Beneath that arch of unmoved and eternal
stened and whispered and slunk about the
nsidering what to do next, when he heard
ronger than the sun. He was otherwise qu
The head of one of the regular indoor me
 to be taken in any case, Mr. Lorry took
sed, bursting forth like a fire. I had s
s or dies!"
f you discover a defect in this electron
 Paris; and nothing was more noticed in 
er terms of this agreement for free     
en the man before?
 again sitting by her, when she began to
neral turned the whole suit of clothes M
er to Defarge, to say with sudden impati
ing, in the coolest linen, aiming (as he
the light of a flambeau, as his carriage
au far away beyond the heaving water and
ing the unhappy fate of poor Gaspard."
d up!"
a word with any one of them, but who had
he streets, came nearer and nearer.
e whose murderous yells outside the gate
 turning in the direction of the sanctua
foremost billows rolled past, bearing th
Yielding to his own disturbance of mind,
wing close to her.
Darnay found himself confronted by the s
ively inclination to displace in his fav
s he would never hear again. Nine gone f
r shaved him close.
next; no man could have said, that night
-a something, once innocent, delivered o
y less than the mad ferocity against tho
"As she had mentioned her husband's name
be beating to drown a wretched voice, th
ndred and Five, North Tower, now! He had
There was no one bidden to the marriage 
--No, it's not important. No. Yet I know
, or rabbit; not at all as if he were a 
rmness, "I should have great hope. As it
ing about them in lieu of the Furies, qu
t ask me why I make the stipulations I a
"Pardon me; certainly it was I who said 
r.
ubt: better, I dare say."
 hat to the oldest of men as they passed
 no doubt; still, the sagacious Mr. Lorr
 hill above the village."
ve of the man you see before yourself--f
cause it would have been a bad thing for
 your heart. May it otherwise be light a
for riders in coaches were liable to be 
y to lame all living creatures that appr
When he had said it, he took a culminati
d down his work, put his hand to his nec
 seemed to be; he returned the look, and
is fingers' ends in the morning.
him without pay, obliged to grind our co
ck-lane brood.
and to a Present beyond his misery: and 
or it in pocket; and it's my suspicion t
or to let the passengers in.
tone, sunk to a whisper, "I have been fr
nch," said Mr. Stryver.
" said Madame Defarge, laying her hand w
es similarly favoured!--always was for E
rn wanderer then pacing the dark streets
"Tell me what it is."
ding their inquisitive and adventurous p
d them afterwards, and told her grandchi
The faintness of the voice was pitiable 
"Indeed, my own? Why so?"
 them on Sunday."
without prominently displaying the sente
 to talk of this terrible Revolution as 
head a most wonderful bonnet like a Gren
of the previous night, considering what 
gently, by the loose front of his red wo
 the jackal again complied.
 stony business altogether, with heavy s
itably coming, years before, and had not
men that she had spoken with, and left b
osive state of readiness, who stopped al
, be assured."
Carton, "you have fallen into your rank,
VII. A Knock at the Door
on of body, and of constantly making fre
tly but firmly, "I would not ask that wo
was low in the west, and the sky was glo
s by that time popularly canonised. His 
, to talk about one's own past, with the
sgrace you, pull you down with him. I kn
ignified his pleasure that they should r
d Darnay.
rance had been shaped into the detested 
"Come on at a footpace! d'ye mind me? An
w on me and on all my hopes."
em was the consideration that this was h
"Humph! I see one thing," said Carton. "
rved the Marquis, "will keep the dogs ob
 was coldly looking in through its grimy
ame Defarge. Madame Defarge met the lift
ys, might (I do not go so far as to say 
ggard eyes had looked up again: not with
t was open at the throat, as it used to 
 the streets, as if it and a drummer had
 Towards the last, I could understand so
ted the younger brother's (as I call him
at there was such a sister; beyond that,
life, love, duty, rest, comfort."
eadful place, though no art could trace 
sequestrated, and then confiscated. For,
 to him. Opening this piece of paper in 
monde brothers, as that Bastille paper d
hinks of it much?"
d, Citizen Evremonde. I hoped it was tru
"I do it because it's politic; I do it o
Few coaches were abroad, for riders in c
tte, before I go?"
e functionaries and soldiery turned with
"What health? What toast?"
re poverty yielded, from their children,
e made shoes, he made shoes." The prison
ess and solitude from his grim pursuer. 
ogether."
ir a young woman from the crowd to be ca
aul's was striking one in the cleared ai
y--this dimly perceptible through the ra
k up one of these days, and be ill and p
he corner all through this space of time
-haired, and grey; youths; stalwart men 
f muskets.
ation ("the Foundation" or PGLAF), owns 
nd mystery of his father's honest callin
e had been the vainest and handsomest of
"Indeed, sir!"
he place to which I had gone: in effect,
ing his strength with a good plain dinne
e had so much the more to answer for. If
en coach, attended by the shining Bull's
"Believe it, love! Indeed it is so. Cons
It was Stryver's grand peculiarity that 
e--to be known by its fruits of indiffer
d no suspicion of the fact; Mr. Lorry co
"
such poor cattle always have in their mo
 as they filled the place, and stopped t
and greatly facilitate its progress duri
 correspondingly extra quantity of wine 
d Charles Darnay awaited his further ple
tion
of the women, lashed into blind frenzy, 
said Defarge. "He is well hidden, but at
ng the method      you already use to ca
rs made some protest against these chang
 about as if for some friend who was not
s if I wrote. Make the best of your way.
 you."
m two to three years old, in her carriag
c caps, was not so red as the rest. Soun
s hardly known to him, or to the general
"Now what do you think, Mr. Cruncher," s
ented their danger to me in strong colou
oubled hand at his chin, and his trouble
ered drawbridge, past the massive stone 
in, with heavier wreaths of mist closing
 his heart, that contended against resig
The shoe dropped to the ground, and he s
n shoes whenever his eye lighted on her.
ght to trial, the public current of the 
 both, he wrote that he would despatch l
l, madame."
mptuously and angrily. "Yes. I have obse
ton came up at the moment, and touched M
ed open the door with the weak rattle in
he chateau as to interrogate that face o
liant, and said, turning to her friend T
uch unsuccessful hard swearing there--no
use his influence with her, to make her 
erview unlike any other that could have 
our of her present years and character, 
ous occasion when you forced me to confe
d by the most pestilent and blasphemous 
at I can save him, Lucie."
 see the loaf disappear under the effica
and a measure of oil for the lamp, Miss 
oot in the chair, "and here are the tumb
He did not begin, but, in his indecision
uck."
"Naturally," said Mr. Lorry. "Yes--I--"
nce you were here." He said it with a ha
ught this of him."
, when desperate games are played for de
 stopping him by anticipation, riding wi
a bad thing for me in a worldly point of
accomplishments that they were never for
n you influence it for yourself. But it 
eing in favour with the Aristocrat gover
is madness. It cannot be accomplished, i
nse, apply to copying and distributing P
rred old shadows that I thought had died
ers and blooming daughters who were ther
The Echoes rarely answered to the actual
outer coat; "But you," said Mr. Lorry, r
 and lowered his voice, "you can have no
nk it by bumpers, looking at his friend.
"Yes, sir. Not much in the habit of such
mes. Neither were they connected with fe
 laughing boastfully, "though I don't pr
man, who had wandered and struggled and 
In that same juncture of time when the F
ak, and still holding her straw travelli
present, no other words passed between t
such a look was to be found in the line 
se he had resigned; whereas, in England,
e, through the illuminated villages with
rawled:
bargain was concluded. She always made a
ion at the deserted chateau far away bey
awn out his money.
there was none. The mender of roads, and
, sir," said Barsad, with a smile that g
 Samaritans, who were seated on the bodi
disapproving, anticipating, and precipit
but, she so far understood them as to pe
ting himself to the mercies of such prec
d live otherwise and elsewhere. It is li
by the surrender of the citizen Evremond
n the prisoner. Have you ever seen him b
"I hope there ain't, but I can't make so
ybreak and before sunrise, by the presen
ould becomingly be of a country still co
risonment, and of his having been a mere
hat in his love for Lucie, his renunciat
adame Defarge and her party seemed to fa
ooking in at the railings and maturely c
rts, for a breath of air, Madame Defarge
In a city dominated by the axe, alone at
, was Sydney Carton. He had his hands be
or were broken in (he was a small Southe
heir meaning, then began to be audible. 
s, I speak the truth!"
oilet, with a suppressed cry of "You are
e beyond, was soon checked by the steepn
vier, Mr. Lorry passed through this anxi
it on the inside, took out the key again
him yourself to give him no restorative 
em, with strips of linen and fragments o
 voice; and then Mr. Lorry saw him, surr
sh for walking exercise, under the circu
dead; it is the inexorable consolidation
 Monsieur Defarge in the doorway to whic
 the stairs, followed down the court, fo
ons, shrieks, volleys, execrations, brav
re!"
ultuous under a red flag and with their 
and splashing through the darkness, and 
"May I ask, sir, if you think she is--" 
n in custody, but should, for his sake, 
hoemaking.
tes, rather than glimpses, were caught o
o far as he could judge, it was a wrong 
"That's a fair young lady to hand to a c
inly, a little like." Madame sternly ret
s; who was he?"
nd resumed his former attitude.
 you a second opportunity to receive the
eady for it now, that it could strike. T
 which rascal threw at the carriage, and
"He has paid all, Monseigneur. He is dea
ich Mr. Lorry had hired in honour of the
sible of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, 
hat can be, Citizen Evremonde. Such a po
bted his mind being in confusion, and th
plete, inaccurate or corrupt data, trans
hat is to say, it is very curious to me;
corted him carefully from the spot--had 
noise out of which they had come had alm
"But I hope," said the gentleman, follow
s of every day at this place; and every 
"What's that to you? Ecod!" growled Mr. 
o Calais, tomorrow, drawer?"
hat bell!" wherein she was likewise much
ring back the remembrance of a Home long
"I am."
silently, that if Young Jerry had been s
XIII. The Fellow of No Delicacy
 into the Gazette. For, what would staid
Dress was the one unfailing talisman and
were as old as Adam.
 it was pretty and characteristic, besid
-law of the despatched, another of the p
window, and she was gone.
They went into a dingy room lined with b
dental manner, quite natural and unimpea
id Monsieur Defarge.
 England to be at peace and at rest, I c
oon she arrived at the usual corner. It 
dertake to correct my advice by the exer
Paris!
m, "that you are not in secret?"
ooking down at his wife, who stood at th
 holding Mrs. Cruncher by the ears, and 
husband was no longer confined alone, bu
the wound, the Doctor had passed out at 
again settling the crisp flaxen wig at t
ields; men and women here, to dig and de
"I propose that we first conduct your si
rmat with its attached full Project Gute
Cross and a new large figure of Our Savi
 the Bank, sir, yesterday, informing me 
ock at my Lord Chief Justice himself, an
"Monseigneur? That?"
hen you reflect that I have never seen y
my own mind, than to convey to yours. Ho
heartless scoundrel who had stripped her
t of King's Bench, the florid countenanc
served well of the Republic, and possess
*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOO
s very hard to explain, consistently, th
ful--pushed the bottle thoughtfully away
scued him from these caresses for the mo
, retreated, struck at one another's han
g those passages across the Channel--tho
ouldn't do for you, Jerry. Jerry, you ho
 him to sit down before the fire, with a
life.' That's a Blazing strange message.
s by the way to drink, but evincing a te
 and the ship and crew were in peril of 
 latter prayers, the led cow, trying for
 and had just poured out his last glassf
en latitudes, the world of a man has inv
new what Court influence was, and what t
s do.
l not be separated long. I feel that thi
th as well as itself, was hard to be end
nding to belong to them, but all nearly 
 changed, it is too probable; almost a w
s with which it has long been laden. Dea
at down at the table. Carton, with his r
"You spoke of his daughter. Does his dau
d made no response--dropped cold and hea
ore sacred character than that in which 
are him?"
he mist, "Is that the Dover mail?"
orry shivered, and retired to his seat b
r a thump from the golden giant. These, 
, rather, in a fearful pause, as having 
 for the prisoner.
lose; there's nothing wrong."
unday nights for a long time past and I 
d thing which appeared to have hurriedly
r, his devices for blowing the people up
ht, in the third week of December (I thi
 out a hand and seized him, crying:
him, in her paleness and wildness, she p
no man on earth cares for me."
rs ever wandering over and over those fi
Perhaps the following silence, perhaps s
and hold his high place under the admiri
t, and not even fallen back in her chair
ven to the name of his oppressor?"
lling her "my precious!" and "my bird!" 
be silent, and trust the case wholly to 
thought of him.
for feeling confident that he could beco
 of his journey were accomplished, when 
 as sick people went down to be dipped i
ears for anything, if it made a show and
hery and villainy were practised, and wh
sband, the forester."
d dress yourself, emigrant."
had touched his liver, or whether his ge
ithal, this lieutenant had already earne
The Night Shadows      Chapter IV     Th
 his cognac to the end, he added:
) your periodic tax      returns.  Royal
to get to sleep again, which the man dex
"They are not in danger?"
ess, was very rarely pierced by the ligh
 message to the unfortunate Gabelle in p
ears almost!"
n, dead and heavy, on his breast when he
rridor. This thrown open, admitted him t
d, as they all bent their heads and pass
m Clerkenwell where he lived, on his way
s. The instant he entered the room, it w
 persuade her husband to use his influen
Unseen by the spy, Mr. Cruncher stood at
le of these trades, or of a lonely lodge
he said these words aloud under the fast
t is best spared. What do you say?"
 what you have to do with the matter. If
and wither away.
mptuous and choice supper. His chair was
 the skirting mud, to avoid the stones t
e streets?" she asked him.
 with me to the Bank?"
was in the nature of man to do it. I hav
"Jerry, Jerry, Jerry!" his wife implored
nd then a keener, and then a keener, and
was to draw his hands through his white 
to the company, and drank. In the breast
 and washed at the usual hour, and set o
all degrees; and the frightful moral dis
s had these various notabilities left be
"I can't say."
tleman from Tellson's, who had looked in
ashing along by its side. They had stopp
 been happy, yet his Ghost has never hau
the minds of his daughter and his friend
he richest and gayest. Say! Would you no
he nephew, in his former tone, "a face I
a, and coffee, and what not, that flowed
cial morality--was at least the greatest
nd deftly knitting an extra something in
r holes to look on, and they remained lo
ually a run of confidence upon us! Our c
t a few old crones and the wailing child
wards. In arranging his clothes, while t
ir trouble, which they had picked up in 
 another in the attitude of prayer, and 
er intellectual property infringement, a
oo strong and fast for him. The new era 
*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 
VIII. Monseigneur in the Country
s way from the Temple, while the bloom o
 carnage to the prison of La Force. That
been read at his father's grave, arose i
clined to go to it (when he doesn't, he 
at at the side of the bed until the nigh
ed his hat on, and walked out. He turned
athing more freely in a little while, he
 am, into fire--a fire, however, insepar
d cry from a number of voices, and the h
ows of death, as he forced his clenched 
ng to Mr. Lorry to come forward.
 of the person to whom it was addressed?
ladder on which he mounted. Sessions and
had been a strong and extraordinary revi
in the afternoon."
e of life, and the return of morning. Su
ned forward on his bench in the dusk, wi
"Well then! Pledge me to the pretty witn
the surface, with his spiky hair looking
nting-house below, was ever heard or see
 way. On seeing him, the miserable creat
Mr. Stryver sucked the end of a ruler fo
nd in the light of other fires, there we
. Cruncher, more and more disturbed. "Wo
or, whose attainments made the student's
ed.
The three went on, and Young Jerry went 
 copying or distributing any Project Gut
nt.
e even yet discovered it, as a point in 
ucie. She said that her father had spoke
ad dropped out of Tellson's ledgers, to 
erfect safety, and then to have quitted 
to stimulate him. Next followed the thou
The accursed was already under the carri
wift changes and troubles of the time wh
that every new-comer from France reporte
me dropping down, which he averted his f
efund.  If the second copy is also defec
eculiarity as if it would have been infi
rst; he never spoke one of the words tha
--outwatched the awful night. He entered
 more of them!" exclaimed the man with t
A murky red and yellow sky, and a rising
r a replacement copy, if a defect in the
enience, the carriage probably would not
t to say wolfishly practical character, 
 Cruncher had next to attend while Mr. A
man interest, were in the most exemplary
at extent. Mr. Lorry, you cannot control
ich had stung him bitterly, and those of
e papers of monsieur inside, with the wh
tle of wine, that the arrest has taken p
s voice, and invariably turned to it whe
d tell me that you buried Cly. It was a 
ght have been a Mrs. Lorry, any time the
h the hope of rousing him from any despo
 breath, and holding the breath, and hav
ed in no very soothing tone.
 is a forgery and a fraud. You know the 
sneers of Monseigneur, which had stung h
r when the jury come in. Don't be a mome
ng again, and answering over his shoulde
 In conjunction with Miss Pross, he took
imparts a sinister expression! Good day,
forger was put to Death; the utterer of 
s, she stopped at the sign of the Good R
orth America. This much, Jerry, with his
 thirty, but looking twenty years older 
ax identification number is 64-6221541. 
w weak he is in his misery!"
ather?"
 hope, it was the winter of despair, we 
ery of my own wretched heart I know bett
Lorry caught the flame, and was as quick
 own secret; that every room in every on
dustry of the overladen people of France
"I listened to the patient's breathing, 
he King, the first Minister of State, or
t is."
ve he had heard, he had heard his condem
elding under the pressure of a complicat
here, my soul," said The Vengeance, call
ng impatiently, but other help (if that 
"set himself in opposition to the last M
e every day kept down and perverted, tha
 patriot says," observed the functionary
ng old, and we really can't be troubled 
d in this distrust of his wife. It was a
ble as it is. I shall be ready in a quar
ve of Mr. Lorry. As soon as he arrived i
ed to the fire. A light, or a shade (the
ssion returned to his forehead, he seeme
ames burst forth, and the stone faces aw
t, when it was finished, two centuries a
 high hand. Thus did the year one thousa
by word or deed. So quick was the Tribun
 clocks struck the numbers he would neve
 him who had interrupted. "Go on!"
by the dripping water, but constantly pa
tervals for the last six hours.
to Lucie, explaining the strong obligati
and dropped something into it from betwe
sorbed face. They were all leaning their
forth; that was to say, by coming and go
three in the morning.
out at every doorway, looked from every 
"In effect," madame struck in, looking u
it was clearer than crystal to the lords
, the lofty example of this immaculate a
Defarge refreshed himself with a draught
othes, on the sofa in Doctor Manette's c
, I'll put you in a corner," forensicall
y, by any stretch of mathematics, was ab
delicately pointing, first to his nephew
ll those years, relative to the cause of
rength of the two ancient clerks. Those 
ut when the young lady and her father we
, they had no ears for anything in their
into St. Giles's, to search for contraba
Yes. The Loadstone Rock was drawing him,
ssable space. It is useless to say it, I
n this respect the House was much on a p
ion and preparation, both by sea and lan
h these lists? Certain. Knew no more abo
us have one final word alone."
 these three or four days past. Mr. Stry
he addition of the first handful of stra
ings. Now, does he do too much?"
ng corner, listening to the echoing foot
und them and before them, loved and hope
ss because he knew very well, that the v
*****
re in peril of tempest.
g or creating derivative works based on 
Mail      Chapter III    The Night Shado
ryver, leaning his arms confidentially o
, seemed to the mender of roads, to be s
At the steepest point of the hill there 
"Miss Pross's brother, sir," said Sydney
ew two more billets into his basket, but
uses, he threw himself down in his cloth
er father thanks you."
ge!"
 it was a poor figure in wood, done by s
ook another gentle little pinch of snuff
new it. You want to be the death of me. 
utilation. "Lower the lamp yonder!" crie
 and there hanged out of the way.
y and squeezed out! There must be someth
nk in silent despair; again, there are s
time, by my watch, answering almost to t
s Darnay brought before the lawless Cour
ne. And yet there is not in France, with
n English, concerning the Marquis who wa
 would have modestly withdrawn himself, 
d had pleaded hard to the Tribunal--of w
ist. "It is under my arm," said Miss Pro
ss, Carton said, resuming his former air
t he recruited his finances, as just now
ards the left cheek; expression, therefo
, for ever, from the eyes of the bodies 
ion of the old family house, in his rese
"I forget what it was you asked me. What
 a whole world, with all its greatnesses
to think we are not much alike in any pa
ind, that those associations would be re
od that the man sawed off; Hunger stared
they had not assisted it by word or deed
ave come, I think you will do something 
 events had lately come to the English C
s how she spoilt Lucie, in accents and w
 might be very painful to Miss Manette t
for a mysterious dread of madame by whic
ed cold and heavy, and took to its knitt
an's face ever beheld there. Many added 
"I go," said madame, "with you at presen
 a quick look. Then she glanced in a cas
"The Citizen Evremonde, called Darnay," 
e upon the prisoner. Have you seen him, 
. During all that time Lucie was never s
ntleman's protection. The gentleman had 
She looked an old woman, but was young. 
s of more flopping, give me a call. For,
"I was weak and faint when you brought m
 and eighty. It was very small, very dar
e there. With the same intention, he dre
is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is 
be incorrigible," was his friend's answe
, and difficult to penetrate. My daughte
in Tellson and Company's House."
 minute, when he nodded and went out. Th
y way to my work. There I see him, high 
"I am not thankless, I hope, but that dr
it not be a minute later!"
ame, implacably, addressing her husband,
nd with a studious and absorbed face. Th
 himself had drooped before Monseigneur 
children, were but newly released from t
 in the passages, to shoulder his way ba
 himself between this man and the rider'
 bell, "there is nothing in that, I hope
between us and our pleasure, whatever it
"Do I ask you, my dear Darnay, to pass t
three.
hen you see it. You do remember them, I 
ge went on, "my husband has not my reaso
ker's name."
ing emergency, Miss Pross hailed it with
Not only that; but the village, light-he
f from speaking disrespectfully of that 
 I am not afraid, but I am little and we
ents in laws and customs that had long b
umption of some old pursuit connected wi
even if I knew certainly not, show me th
--taxed by him without mercy, obliged to
egin."
er life.
ame post.
, their all at once rising to receive hi
n famous among his earliest competitors 
might have been a sorely wounded soldier
ng to the immemorial usage of waiters in
clothes, come easily off and on.
rough a gradual process of reconcilement
, whenever the coach got a special jolt-
e dock, and sat down.
ent and still, looking fixedly at the gr
or cruel. Even when golden hair, like he
s subdued and quiet, and Lucie was more 
ed to a good young man, too: a tenant of
acuteness and severity to the affections
tion to the spectators. A life-thirsting
"You see, too," said the Doctor, tremulo
t in.
 strong hand, in the years gone by. She 
ards the vortex where Defarge himself, a
dustrious appearance rose from her knees
hed. She had in part suspected, and in p
, or delay in it--for any reason--and no
ver. Ever live by play? Not more than ot
so--by diggin' of 'em in with a will, an
 rightly have one without t'other? Then,
l him nothing.
"No; nor will she miss now," cries The V
face, the calm strong look and bearing o
t twenty. Her hair was torn and ragged, 
some cause to believe that I should succ
he had sat. Her father rose with her, an
things be old-fashioned, were as old as 
allow steps, Monsieur the Marquis, flamb
ss of himself grew out of it. Not knowin
esolve to incommode you to that extent. 
never can be done. You will only die wit
of her married life was full of her lovi
soner, in reality a very slight one, for
on.
 face.
"It is a tone of fervent admiration, tru
ertainly be executed. They even whisper 
s at me with any deference on it but the
was a pause, and a hurry, and a murmur, 
bare, and, as he spoke with a helpless l
this fancy, and they were roughly hustle
s that were turned upon him, turned to t
urally so peculiar in appearance as not 
"Have you spoken to Lucie?"
ropped into a doze, when a loud murmur a
hom had his head hanging on by a single 
 is a man of a pretty strong will. Yes, 
it would have been another. Or, if it ha
 Another darkness was closing in as sure
ecome members of a fantastic sect of Con
cape might depend on the saving of only 
al to take Miss Manette to Vauxhall Gard
heartily admire your gallantry and youth
 up, only the leanest scrags of meat; th
enger opened the coach-door and got in; 
novelty, they faltered, made a pretence 
tor Manette were in a quiet street-corne
all."
xposed on Temple Bar with an insensate b
aside from my purpose; I was speaking ab
ed, Madame Defarge, picking her teeth wi
 disturb him. I must look in at Tellson'
advice."
n constant requisition; now, stringing u
"'She has a husband, a father, and a bro
e some."
id Miss Pross.
e trod on these stones often. Let me fol
, as showing the prisoner to be artful i
is hand upon the fastening of the window
er of roads.
son's banking-house at nine," he said, w
ing it, the slow sure filing down of mis
variety of soil and climate, a blade, a 
ying that he had told it so often, that 
y colour in his cheeks, and his face, th
"What did you say?"
verything to me; more to me than sufferi
tried. These judges, and all the men in 
ey seem to plough up a long crooked furr
he talked well; but, the cloud of caring
perties, such a peculiar Ear of a place,
of these two passengers?"
k into his harness in the day. But he wa
ridle, the end of which one of the patri
reets behind, passed the North Barrier, 
 shook himself, yawned, shivered, and co
his leave: taking occasion to say, in a 
low!" said the Marquis to the courier.
at crowd bearing down upon us, Miss Mane
 if you please. Show Concord! Gentleman'
 told off. From the farmer-general of se
 talk about Liberty; we have quite enoug
p at his post. On the tenth morning of h
 have hurriedly been brought there from 
ne.
. 'Under the circumstances, no.'
nge on the village, and on many a villag
 desolate of Republicans, if anything pr
"How many did they say?"
tle property--somebody in the landlady w
that Mr. Lorry determined to have the ai
no prohibition against accepting unsolic
 had an enemy in some compatriot who cou
is funeral, which engendered uproar.
napping his fingers, "I know something o
t need that old employment, and not find
uld say, though you cannot know how earn
en taught to pity me. When they passed a
rabian stories, "then remain so! But, if
 down softly, as he sat staring at her.
 of the message, and took such shapes to
ther, aged and bent, but otherwise resto
 leaving of you, you see. We don't know 
your duty to give--which you must give--
you. Such whims are only impressive as w
ure of seeing you again in the morning. 
minating them from the face of the earth
but an English bull-dog, or of having an
or two long golden hairs, which he had, 
 Tellson's House since. Feelings! I have
d to avoid any very excited group of tal
g asked. In that, there seemed a faint e
." Stopping then, to look down at the ma
om, it was the age of foolishness, it wa
he hands she knew, this is not the face 
 to be his tumbrils of the Revolution. B
"In effect, sir," pursued the nephew, "I
ne), and in English.
ness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and
woman, weeping for me on the anniversary
 as if to be sure that it was really the
The Doctor, in a low voice, asked, "Of h
ate as to find you there, and being info
ht see you in the street, he thinks, if 
, so deep, and certain, was like a conge
 to see it a little more clearly, and te
ations which arose in the business mind 
e in the prevalent absence of any idea, 
uch fatigued and in a very weak state of
came, and those of her own dear father's
 herbs before him into imaginary beds of
to all the village. When the village had
on of an infamous description. If you ha
ith words, and making card-towers of Bab
ould not lose a word of it--not a syllab
emanded Number One. "To be registered?"
"The manner of both was imperious, and t
ish to make for our mutual satisfaction.
Tellson's (they said) wanted no elbow-ro
prisoner?"
"As we happen to be alone for the moment
ance of her lost father. My picture was 
rriage rolled away.
e his life, to keep a life you love besi
a press of people towards the third cart
"I see that I hold a sanctuary in their 
ng his arm, she laid her hand upon his s
 chocolate. Monseigneur could swallow a 
ult to squeeze in."
rsion of all experience and likelihood w
d it; perhaps not quite disinterestedly,
ank, as from an observatory or watchtowe
e passengers, the passengers suspected o
essed in black, who was leaning in the e
ilitary lanterns, and one of them being 
rs. Her forehead was painfully anxious a
his. I also saw that I was an incumbranc
ith all my heart, and will open all my h
"How, then?" cried madame, contemptuousl
ed by the tone of the apology, "he is af
vercast day, was in a correspondingly un
child my story, with a tender and a falt
The President asked, why had he returned
at was well done;" they had left the spo
ecipe much in vogue with all trades and 
 of the spiked wall of Newgate, Jerry st
at Tellson's, the oldest of men carried 
y, revealed bright bars and streaks of s
eve it--in some cases--to be quite impos
ntleman, following the chief gaoler with
parted in it.
ng ripening, waters of Hope that sparkle
old, had been upon him, like a heavy clo
m of coarse red caps and coarse woollen 
mire by the side of the mail, as the res
the British troops and the Americans. Th
s, who immediately scrambled into the co
which had culminated the bad deeds and b
ilthy street that had no offal, among it
 smoke; but, still the deep ditch, the s
 bear hard upon him, but as anybody migh
 the scene, and in her pity for the pris
is a non profit 501(c)(3) educational co
me changed into a means of angering the 
the armorial bearings of a Noble, and th
. Steeping the towels in the water, and 
air-breadth line. So does a whole world,
spicuous in his grey coat and red decora
her to surprise, not only the witness, b
Certain small packets were made and give
om being run down. His man drove as if h
and stopped.
f the court's emptying itself by many pa
esolutely asked.
let him remain with me; I will take care
 saw, what either of the other two was l
h the mother and the child.
thundering cannon; when the military dru
cified in Section 4, "Information about 
n, if she does. My darling pretty!"
What money would be drawn out of Tellson
an English four-poster, they shouldn't l
ry. "You know where to deliver it?"
of it, except to perish. In the morning,
er, it had quite gone out of her.
ing itself through turbid water, and dra
stake to speculate with, and had abandon
 lay down on his straw bed, he thought h
nly knew that there had been an attack u
ry when business hours came round, was t
intelligible sound of his voice; and the
finds it answering her expectations."
friend, Doctor Manette!"
ith a relish; "he'll be drawn on a hurdl
id it with a hard smile, and went on wri
is saddle, and, resuming it as his safes
f the release, and of the state of the p
There happened to be no customer in the 
yers at leap-frog might have declined hi
e resolved to play for, in case of the w
of his knowledge as if it had been a hun
 Fathers and mothers who had had their f
remost over the parapet, and crush a man
"If I had never seen Charles, my father,
 his eyes over the submissive faces that
imes unaccountably realised large fortun
 hanged there forty feet high--and is le
bject than to make a noise there. With t
though they were, eyes of fire were not 
"They are," Mr. Lorry whispered the word
un and the Marquis going down together, 
lies, and for similar traffic and traffi
ller then, moving to the brow of the hil
anionship in it, an observable inclinati
I have heard them say so."
ver, and he'll tell you so."
sister, I might not have led up so pleas
 the people; now, found in hunting the b
brown sea-sand, Madame Defarge took her 
 their interest in the matter," he answe
 educational corporation organized under
round, and he sat looking fixedly at the
r little seamstress, who was with you in
"You are a little depressed, too," said 
d himself that he was awake, Mr. Lorry f
ses followed suit. Once more, the Dover 
d him, in the way of Subjects without he
s. There was soon but one person left of
"Say, then, my Gaspard, what do you do t
 I leave off for the time, and put my pa
never heard of ubiquitous Jacques in his
1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclai
e point of overtaking him and hopping on
ion to the misgiving, to keep the forge?
beheld him in his terrors than he took t
Yet, Monseigneur had slowly found that v
Only hear them!"
there in the calm morning air, with a re
"Never."
to a Home. But, no Hundreds of people ca
What time, the mail-coach lumbered, jolt
of which many a peasant, gone to his ben
ld not be wasted--"
t Antoine to dance at the sight of.
arnay."
 to make bonfires with, and that post-ho
 by any means, and would know no scruple
le handle, and, turning at it madly were
ondemned Hold at the back, where you med
s, and had not assumed the coarse garb o
 then, leaned over him, and looked at hi
 was suddenly disturbed by a coin flying
Mr. Stryver having made up his mind to t
Darnay, when they had listened for a whi
, and would have had more if it were pos
tdated equipment.  Many small donations 
 Foundation and Michael Hart, the owner 
eedily stare in; a little child, carried
ngs as this. But try! Of little worth as
_ capable of forming any plan, my dear g
ry, which the Farmer, Death, had already
"From the time of our alighting at the o
y condition. I believe your object to be
o keep Two before his mind, as the hour,
re gratefully accepted, but we cannot ma
er in the street by the prison. Let me b
n answer to the ringing of the bell, and
Her uncertainty lasted but a moment; she
and a half.
orry. "Pray let there be no mistake abou
he Circumference, and that he was to be 
"Am I to wait in the court, sir?" he ask
ooked up; and when he saw the glass his 
o that his tears and her lips might come
, squaring himself at him with a bullyin
 expect; is he arrived from England?"
undutiful grin.
r sorrow, to devote herself to their dea
ches), poured the chocolate out. It was 
of the Republic, and must look out at th
ered there," he observed then, turning h
as white as the tops of the waves that b
weakest poltroon that lives, to erase hi
d      Chapter X      Two Promises      
ed by Jerry, and found Lucie weeping, al
is side, and the other gaolers moving ab
volution that was running so fearfully w
As he bent his head in his most courtly 
 of Jarvis Lorry, as he clasps his hands
 from Lucie; the second, that it must be
r the plane-tree, and they should sit th
ou all. Speak, Jacques Five!"
on as set forth in Section 3 below.
a boot. "You're at it agin, are you?"
"When passed?"
 as offensive.
 every wind that blew over France shook 
o act in anything without her quiet aid)
 Midnight Murder, and Mischief."
 than are set forth in this agreement, y
. Lorry had seen in the same figure a wo
g it out of a cart; the cask had tumbled
is, the pretty almost-child's head thus 
, she entertained herself, besides, with
he name--and with the face."
nt Mr. Lorry clean out of the group: "I 
ate, but I cannot write the words of our
 could be to any new authority in France
 it. This is a secret service altogether
 falling, large, heavy, and few," said D
r an escort."
e while he came. He had been known in En
turned from him to Sydney Carton, and sa
 comforting smile. As he went out at the
ven now."
e appearance of a lady dressed in black,
 before he left town for the Long Vacati
organized under the laws of the state of
e crowd outside the building.
 current, would have rushed at him with 
ound of scents away, as he put down his 
and a fair land journey, you will be soo
es in a day, by riding after him and tak
ancing at him with deep distrust, "I kno
 cannot control the mincing vanities and
e!" said he.
mind. In seasons of pestilence, some of 
his eyes did not go with it.
ench, and French law, and other French c
 quite a little storm, and the precious 
work in his hand, and observed that it w
-had assured him that it would be there-
 have madame knitting all the way there,
er, but she is worthy of good fortune. A
Jerry, left alone in the mist and darkne
as regularly as when time was young, and
chosen English home, the necessity of be
n apple on the top of it, was now among 
me?"
And now that the cloud settled on Saint 
ward under his hand, and he looked into 
ed to it, was a knife. Round its hilt wa
 consumed. Three more birthdays of littl
epublic, a notorious oppressor of the Pe
n honour of the day. The rest followed i
ough, swart, steeped in the mud and dust
, that not only was Miss Pross lost in a
an a fierce desire to change places with
The escort were two mounted patriots in 
 Antiquity, and offered a few words of e
ace, lay an old sword that seemed to hav
 struck out the time afresh, formed into
the two counters, required the utmost re
"Hurry, hurry!"
The passage to the Conciergerie was shor
there coffin. Don't go and tell me that 
mith's tools, a couple of torches, and a
circle sat in the dark London window.
 apart from her. "We shall not be separa
 Jury?" inquired Madame Defarge, letting
o after daybreak, and lying by until the
e-light undisturbed. Little Lucie sat by
h they may in the spirit.' Those were th
 Stryver, stood gathered round Mr. Charl
ns having been very simple and few, the 
dropped with it, and I laid him down dea
tions, in his own manner, and who had be
 night, and Carton was rumoured to be se
 things which made this wild ride unreal
dropper among his own countrymen there: 
if--the thought passed through my mind--
s exceedingly well, and, as long as the 
pressive signs of what made them poor, w
 creatures--found only among women--who 
 to the Conciergerie, and Death within f
Stryver, staring at him, "am I not eligi
re that you've been praying again me, an
ere, and still lingering there when the 
mself as they could be, they never looke
 and the crowd being under the necessity
ined with the extravagant plots of Monse
r, and taking him, not ungently, by the 
that tutor-fellow. He was also in the ha
dy in course of execution, was a great r
ge listening to the water as it splashed
n, that bad aims were being worked out i
Lorry, that he was not one of them?"
onseigneur was ready, and sat down alone
s in the earthly order of events had lat
ustomers. These are mere business relati
en gathering the heavy handkerchief unde
tress to him, to have the days of his im
Perfectly still and silent, and not even
er, with sufficient haste and trepidatio
"What was that?" Lucie asked.
for all who ran through Temple Bar to re
"Eh well!" said Madame Defarge, raising 
y could.
ely fetched up; everything was got rid o
e and more of certainty every hour. Can 
am dead of the same malady, I shall be l
ference.
es, perhaps no."
I infer," glancing at his hands again, "
 upon us! Our customers over there, seem
 said Mr. Lorry, as he raised her. "Cour
erwards, and the wine-shop recovered its
Her father had followed her, and would h
had a dinner, and where, even in the yea
 one or other of us faints or dies!"
y went out to alter the arrangements, an
ed, too," said madame, whose quick eyes 
e consolidation and perpetuation of the 
--"Like me."
 young lady from any lips; and that if I
 was already scrubbed throughout; and be
rowful sense of peace, as any emotion th
s, no.'
se the dropped lids of the eyes, and bea
poets (in many passages which he well kn
ely. First, the lonely boar-spears and k
cribe the kind of shoe, for monsieur's i
"My father!" she called to him. "Father 
wo or three hours of drawl, and the winn
 echoes of all the footsteps that are co
now, it seemed almost in the same breath
ed beholder would have given twenty year
A terrible sound arose when the reading 
The last burst carried the mail to the s
new no more about the lists? No. Had not
ress?"
firewood he was cutting, set it in motio
ight!"
their journey naturally tended. There wa
or a way across the street through the m
s of habit. Firstly, because, on fine Su
"Lucie! My own! I am safe."
"_We_ have done wrong?" repeated the Mar
t were left uncorrupted, seemed to escap
ed the nephew, "bound to a system that i
dress of ceremony, I saw the armorial be
poke of himself as pasturing in the coun
 Gutenberg-tm electronic work, you indic
rather younger, and that they were great
ion that saw nothing but the peril of th
hock from which the sufferer recovered, 
w over a little garden-tomb were mingled
 all over the land; a law of the Suspect
hat were to be, were not yet of the Teac
 that rose above them.
ly round him, in a burst of grief. "Now 
ction. It thundered at the town, and thu
than the needs of all France. A happy ci
risoner on that passage across the Chann
ent's pause, in the utterance of these s
ht frown on her lieutenant's lips, "hear
slave and a wave of the hand on another,
 it, in the person of this plotting and 
, C. J., was satisfied that no plainer c
stately residence of Monseigneur was alt
esaid, and over and over again aforesaid
Heralded by a courier in advance, and by
an I am to serve mine, if I knew how.
on, who had not joined the group, or int
Mr. Cruncher did not assist at the closi
d again, stood up where she had sat. Her
ent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and 
 drew a cross in the air. He stood for a
ough stone walls, and so can others. Now
ruinating--stark ruinating! Whereas them
viduality, and which I shall carry in mi
tle red caps stuck upon them; also, with
ne.
 door.
 resurrection and the life, saith the Lo
, attainable by a courtyard where a plan
ssing and written entreaty of a French c
CE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
ractise for popularity on the lowest nat
 it is not so here, to ask your name and
He wrote a long letter to Lucie, showing
ly procession went its way, recruiting a
upon his mind, "this is the day of my de
ur intention is to perpetuate, and not t
rent to showers of hail and intervals of
e in her seat, presiding over the distri
nd under the circumstances, "How do you 
eculating thousands of times upon the un
"O show me the place, my father, and I w
ghtness. It was a cool spot, staid but c
f observing the place in general.
 roads ran, on the sultry morning, as if
that you had such thoughts of a daughter
"--rendered it necessary that I should g
third hour of the morning, Lucie came do
 capacity, and time and tide had drifted
t aside in a corner, that they might enj
 sleep in Beauvais that night to help th
 for France, as the like always is for a
."
nt, and open the coach-door to let the p
eft us?"
 on a bed.
of the time. Similarly, though with a su
 Lorry.
d to see somebody fall, but only saw a m
nd he said it in the natural pursuit of 
ibunal in the capital, and forty or fift
versation here, by rising to help him on
 chin and throat, which descended nearly
grand hotel of Monseigneur were perfectl
my fellow-creatures are mere business re
A supper-table was laid for two, in the 
of it, Sydney."
re him, whispered with those who sat nea
By Charles Dickens
usiness:--Is it not remarkable that Doct
d already earned the complimentary name 
tell you. Even as it is--"
"Now, to the prisoner's conversation, Mi
ome women were stooping over the motionl
his hand, and his eyes intent on the roa
er company were there: two playing cards
d any particle of doubt left, her talk w
"What is it?"
l in the face while he drank the toast, 
nging lamps: of whom, one was Monsieur D
it.
"Hush, dear! Pray, pray, be cautious!" c
 of his gun in his own hand. He made a s
nd four they turned and turned until the
, I will relieve you of a visitor with w
iving in France, save those he had resig
 of action. In his recovered energy he w
 appearance, as unsubstantial as ever.
possibility she would have waited out th
journey, and the winter weather, if I we
e had watched the times for a time of ac
system, it had been accorded to him to h
"Pastime," said madame, still looking at
aunch.
m, and I was in her prayers. Her life wa
, the old postilions count their money, 
Tellson's was a munificent house, and ex
t first day, until it was too dark to se
"You think so?" said Mr. Stryver. "Well!
     Chapter V      The Wood-sawyer     
the wall of the front hall--as if he had
er.
aring at the ceiling of the court; they 
 arm-chest before him, where a loaded bl
d upon her with a frightful suddenness. 
as the Doctor's bedroom, and there, in a
oom. Passing lightly across the intermed
f with a kind of confidence, the idea th
r hopes we fix, God save the King!"
 his return-passage to Clerkenwell. Ther
nsequence so numerous, that Tellson's so
ghty, the first letters written to you b
time when the Fifty-Two awaited their fa
is vinous feature of his, until midday. 
ast year or two has made a rising reputa
mfort her father.
d with his hand to his red cap.
Mr. Lorry was already out when he got ba
.
over the embers, and shed tears. As if a
ing from the pavement by the side of the
nder the skirts of his riding-coat, and 
But, there were other echoes, from a dis
n we remember how identified he is with 
 look at what little luggage it carries 
e Tribunal would be to put yourself out 
nce denounced, and on such grave grounds
 the Hotel de Ville where the governor's
hat she heard, and might be relied upon 
ng to reconcile some doubts in his mind.
o discharge their loads. The ministers o
g every little knot of women that she ha
l page at http://pglaf.org
"There never was, nor will be, but one m
ented, but indistinct and withheld--to a
"But access to him," said Mr. Lorry, "if
e Doctor's service, and of the release, 
sued the spy, "that I have the honour of
These measures, advisable to be taken in
 of the day, and not be dazed and deafen
e to herself to find him looking at her,
king like a dead face out of the sky. Th
quite abandoned them. But, now I believe
at she seemed to be his wife; but, what 
o, and everything under the clouds were 
that her father was dead--No, don't knee
ere, thou powerful enchanter, Time, and 
 forborne, as long as it was in the natu
XIX. An Opinion
ages in the history of France.
bout to order drink, when, catching sigh
ce.
t us think! My esteemed Mr. Cruncher, le
hat he had occasion to change the instru
f; the country-people hanging about, pre
 you would say this to no one else. Can 
"I must do, to live, what others of my c
e the heathen rustic who has for several
 his, and he put it with some ceremony t
ed the encampment for the day. On this p
ut we cannot make any statements concern
ed, went from his carriage, sufficiently
Out of the wine-shop into the street, ou
owers, Doctor Manette?"
at power all of them; but, most especial
oke. One drawbridge down! "Work, comrade
 of your chest and voice, my good friend
Vengeance slept with her starved grocer,
 "I have them both here, of a certainty;
tores from the street: unglazed, and clo
part from the personal discomfort of bei
I am at this time in the possession of m
t in November, one thousand seven hundre
n much the same sort of fellow, if I had
t as a compliment, and looked at her hus
were near and dear to him, forbade him, 
t?"
!" he urged, with a moisture that was no
s own room when they got up-stairs, Mr. 
o far off, that they lay down on the gro
g with him; at least, so Young Jerry inf
He spoke with the diffidence of a man wh
y the people, and gone in search of her 
 of heart to-night, my dear!"
e same fate. Curious to consider how hee
 and a light, he sat down to write until
So, leaving only one light burning on th
uch staining blood, those feet had come 
people at my Section."
pping the desk with his contentious hand
o embrace him, as having a knowledge of 
aggy black hair and beard, the coarse wo
 weak rattle in its throat, stumbled dow
 you for it--that my last avowal of myse
his slippers on, and a loose bed-gown, a
bout the Project Gutenberg Literary Arch
 had been summoned, and the place to whi
a little heap of poor grass."
nd the Temple, as the Bar itself,--and w
 with his stockings, was as white as the
old him it was all a dream, and he had n
olved. The Lord above knows what the com
you said he would be before the Tribunal
ong enough, or often enough to harass hi
At every vote (the Jurymen voted aloud a
u have loved yourself; let your old love
. Lorry, escorted by Jerry, high-booted 
tables with spilt drops of wine, Madame 
 not even to keep him off and shut out t
y heart! My fair young English wife!--we
aid, filling his new goblet.
 fall!"
ching, yet so terrible in the tremendous
ook from his pocket the letter I had wri
man.
with which they looked from windows, cau
 came he, Jarvis Lorry, there? How came 
 a few calm hours of the horrors surroun
unity of saying something to you that yo
, the spy saluted him by touching his ha
that Charles Darnay hesitated.
Clerkenwell, and Mr. Lorry, mindful of f
hardly speak, or stand, or move, or live
e Temple in general, when it was down, "
or any other Project Gutenberg-tm work. 
"Now, don't let my announcement of the n
 the sport of window-breaking, and thenc
 well-looking, with a sunburnt cheek and
 not old, but my young way was never the
life, and no more. Looking round as I re
 as he releases it; nothing worse than a
The prisoner had got into a coach, and h
 desired to show a little attention to a
his breath or turn his head was as impra
nd he presently came out to her, and the
 said his say, as he put down his empty 
cques?"
ce:
at had undergone a terrible grinding and
a forefinger at him. "You are a man of b
comparison of himself with the brave old
e only faints."
"No, Miss Manette; all through it, I hav
t liberty," the Doctor answered, smiling
that it is your deliberate opinion that 
said, as soon as he could make his voice
d, in the last month of the tenth year o
ed but a very little way. Such a scanty 
s Pross, "before you were put in your cr
ame forth shivering--chilled, as yet, by
he chase had been reddened as of old; th
ter, like an animated bit of the spiked 
turned into the street, "before the tumb
n them and the narrator, whom he had sta
limentary name of The Vengeance.
 that deaf city and dumb age, that, in t
oo, and--But stay! There is a Celebratio
write this melancholy paper in my dolefu
ht to his bench and to work.
aturally handsome features, and having t
ce than he made an outward show of, "You
unsel for and against. Among the lookers
de you, are only to be obtained now by i
orfeit: it will be paid in five minutes 
u for damages, costs and expenses, inclu
ew, with his snuff-box in his hand. Once
 and to one other who may be trusted."
rought in after him, one man stopped in 
nd fell into discourse with the triumvir
s, now very nigh their journey's end," s
e who denounced him?"
t Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which t
he jury would be out a long while. The s
e know, now what you underwent when you 
rds Soho, early in the afternoon, for th
d and went out in a puff of smoke.
ut he never says a word of the true reas
subdued voice:
nced to the popular Revolution song, kee
r and vendor of wine," said the Marquis,
per from it, "that is the certificate wh
mplete word, DIG. The floor was examined
"Married, Evremonde?"
lf. If that should happen soon, he kept 
Bailey."
itary figure lingering there, and still 
t conceal from himself that the aspect o
how the ways of the Doctor's household p
. Lorry."
he snow and frost of winter, Lucie passe
to be in the prisoner's handwriting; but
isoner has not a timorous air."
 their homage by bending her head, and g
. He had a wild, lost manner of occasion
 head. If you want me to guess, you must
loneliness: jingling through the untimel
e your hand," said Sydney, with the grea
 this. Mrs. Southcott had recently attai
s and a little concert, for that evening
across it, three or four times, before h
"I thought you knowed everything, father
; but, when he afterwards joined her in 
nd his finger quivered with the craving 
the echoes of years none but friendly an
 a scoundrel. That's why."
What is to become of us, if those shoes 
stones in the churchyard--it was a large
night, before he knew where he was. Mr. 
nd ferocity worthy of Abyssinia or Ashan
down for a long time before he lay down;
 putting to death was a recipe much in v
to put it in the hard heart of either of
in their children, poverty, nakedness, h
. Since I knew you, I have been troubled
 shows you what you have fallen away fro
ly pause in fury; Sydney Carton crossed 
the troubles, in his own cook's dress, a
l errand you, message you, general-light
f roads, with an air of mystery. "The ta
obscure routine of his vermin kind. He w
 I could draw across her at the full, an
uld not see my father weep, and sit by, 
ased to clasp his wrists were so much mo
bout you--ties that will bind you yet mo
n us, long ago, you will readily compreh
-three or four--I don't know how many--I
What are you?"
 That was well done. Let him eat it now!
pened to have carried in my pocket-book,
with her father. It had evidently been a
. I have no doubt that it is, word for w
not, show me the neck of an aristocrat a
covered her charge by a regular series o
rm that had burst their tomb, were carri
t it was the faintness of solitude and d
ed for explanation in his friend's ashy 
to the trademark license, especially com
t, and it lay on the stones just outside
her hands yet at her neck, looked terrif
ervice of her eccentricity, one of those
When his host followed him out on the st
Defarge's not unreasonable reply, "at th
on horseback had exactly the same posses
er thing regarding him was whispered in 
te nothing. You might as well flop as me
"Yes, sir."
 by the spies who looked in at the wine-
"My father," said Lucie, softly laying h
o you feel quite certain?"
rich Farmer-General, poor in family. Whi
ss he, the Doctor, dissolved the obligat
soever liveth and believeth in me shall 
ame his wife. "What! We can kill as well
here will be no oniony and tobaccoey smo
, some stopping altogether; all in the d
ll; he examined his finger-nails with a 
time and in the modern time also," said 
 another moment he was scouring away up 
 to bread. If I, as a honest tradesman, 
r with one meaning in their faces. Carto
e will arrive to-night; nevertheless, le
s of your country in addition to the ter
ring his way up in life.
ame pale lead-colour), and then the hand
r matrimonial picnic, Darnay!" The polit
 agreeable to him to see the common peop
ll day, that we have not known what to d
ve floated a king's ship. Stryver never 
eet during the busy hours of the day, an
he subject _we_ think of, and it gives u
.
ing you welcome to La Force, and of cond
cenary on my behalf than I thought you w
 papa and mamma, I am very sorry to leav
where."
n shadow on the wall. Tracing it to its 
his momentary earnestness, when they wer
m it by my own exertions, and trusting i
eration for her father. Her father thank
"It is the fashion," growled the man. "I
ng. She turned her head as the carriage 
she kissed her hand, "no."
red the fate from which he had been clut
uth that he had done nothing for which h
Under the over-swinging lamps--swinging 
 long sigh, he took the shoe up, and res
 deem it right, to give me some."
ood-sawyer hand in hand with The Vengean
ender of roads, and the two hundred and 
w reappeared, and beckoned to Jerry: who
short, and they were soon at the top. Th
ness; there was no visible menacing or a
1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee 
had itself become the mere mist of a dre
ervice in France: first, as a tempter an
w to inquire which; worse than useless t
which I did not mean to utter here, howe
"Well! And hallo you!" said Jerry, more 
nknown prisoner had written will never b
Pross took him up short with:
ed at the iron grating across it. In a f
ea Still Rises      Chapter XXIII  Fire 
"Again, well?"
 was the figure of a dark stout woman, k
ever feel certain of not losing himself 
"For instance," returned Madame Defarge,
 with its window wide open, and the wood
f the country of her birth, she appeared
"See what a place you fill at seventy-ei
y the beacon they had lighted, towards t
e, and straight through the street, and 
an, originally an expert surgeon, who wi
left into most of the shops they passed,
 the counting up to twelve, and 'Hush!' 
e of the patriots being chronically drun
"Ho! Within the carriage there. Speak th
 the decree. His life is forfeit to the 
ncient cashiers, and shouldered himself 
e question is still where?"
owards Paris from England in the autumn 
t unaccountably failing too, it behoved 
 on his dear breast, and put up a prayer
eving her of her brother," said Sydney C
 by Doctor Manette's not having had the 
 presented by his conductors to this Tri
 I knew how.
doors, and drawing them up to its ears, 
 Defarge in his ear, following the lette
 help (if that were any) there was none.
"The reply to this was made by him who h
ered Mr. Lorry. "Say on."
one, you may take your affidavit, if I c
are to the elbows. Neither did he wear a
ght research on, transcribe and proofrea
oor Gaspard."
y, height about five feet nine, black ha
 hours.
the long street of St. Honore, cries are
even Madame Defarge, who had taken up he
al mode among his brother Professors of 
eated. Some were lamenting, and in restl
!" said madame again. "Listen to him!" D
 of all the risen and stiff hair on Mr. 
 seized; not so with the hoarse tones of
d gleamed at it approvingly; and heads n
his was closed again. There was a hurry,
nce, crept up to his bed, and put her li
m the remembrance of the living, and in 
uly I spoke of myself just now, in sayin
that first brought my fatal presence nea
rded, and it was bowed down to and belie
his lip, Sydney Carton.
to restrain him from flying at the objec
mendous roar arose from the throat of Sa
es."
eal child. Of her outward appearance I k
e for his escort, and hence he started w
f the scarecrows in vain, for the birds,
y furnished--evidently, recently occupie
to like; you know that. Ah, confound you
now, being your sister. And _I_ know you
e heads of lions, in all directions. As 
y the manner in which the family has sus
et from you."
 with certain heavy riding-rods and ridi
eer.
mped upon her face expressly to give for
s Most Gracious Majesty King George the 
 bring a child into the world, and that 
ld me a curious thing when I was there."
ectronic work or group of works on diffe
"There they are, Sydney. Fire away!"
heart.
ond and restless habits. If I should pro
e averted his face to avoid; and in it, 
honour of knowing him there. Our relatio
tate for the immediate denunciation of h
)(3) letter is posted at http://pglaf.or
ir travelling backwards and forwards bet
tisfaction!"
 native France so wicked to you, weep fo
ect Gutenberg-tm
h want. Monseigneur! Monseigneur!"
in the breast of his inner coat, counted
onvenience. All very bad, very bad!"
 sets that there boy of mine, brought up
e privately to the Minister, stating the
de right by you in that dress, I shall h
 taking to a man, that he shows you what
 this happen?"
r PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright i
 say, for-_bid_ it!" This was Mr. Crunch
emote distance of years, harboured in my
at old look of earnestness so concentrat
y it? When did it strike you?"
ht which is always sad, as the light of 
died, and for a little while it seemed a
 said one. "Happy to say, I never knew h
ation. But care, care, care! Let me thin
on a tender place; who adjured his mothe
ing. All we think, here, is how to live.
aside from the natural order of things--
titution, very humanising and softening 
This new life of the Doctor's was an anx
 race that he ran, and one highly desira
-No, don't kneel! In Heaven's name why s
 the shadow of the prison wall. At the a
ing, and waved them like spectral wings.
ink, my wife!"
cribe to our email newsletter to hear ab
 of giants. Also, I see that they are co
knitted. It was a passionate, loving, th
"You hadn't taken to the dreadful busine
He was a strongly made man with dark cur
youth and beauty, was far more trying to
damp and dirty straw, its disagreeable s
lose to his head: which wig, it is to be
 nose, "all could be arranged for our le
had been such, that he felt his journey 
ir came home, the first person who appea
ing been a mere boy in the Doctor's serv
ady counted them), the gaoler opened a l
at her, "that Doctor Manette has any the
vis Lorry who has alighted and stands wi
f this very year last past (supernatural
destroy life in you?" Every lean bare ar
a strange besetting desire to know what 
 which may be observed in all free liver
 of the feminine gender--and he made his
ess and without was only audible to them
Eager and prominent among them, one man 
he bridle over his heavily-splashed arm,
 easily purified when once stained red.
was shred into atomics in every farthing
ing in the country prisons; who was he?"
ok at him, or raise his eyes. His chin d
e apparitions of the coquette, the young
ootsteps of a people, tumultuous under a
ave an association with the name--and wi
of the wine-shop, shattered like a walnu
d him then?
ne."
ir length above his head, and staring at
aring there--not because he was not want
ith that I knew it, I added no mention o
siness charge to acquit myself of. In yo
 trot over the uneven town pavement, and
here, lost and forgotten; what plate and
ere, with brief snatches of food and sle
o have seen these dread powers, Doctor M
 If you are redistributing or providing 
read of discovery; but the man went on. 
nning summer, underneath the carriage of
 to his reward.
es--may not the retention of the thing i
yes rested on these things, a sudden viv
And indeed she never did.
ms, his breast, and his legs, there will
nything but alarming to me."
 who my father, and how I never knew the
rn. He, and his old canvas frock, and hi
't made a mistake in life."
r, who was all in a tremble, and who spo
de; Madame Defarge, still heading some o
n bright beauty springing up anew at you
r barred and the shutters closed, that h
ricken, purposeless, accidental manner, 
"Nothing to boast of," said Miss Pross.
yers. Upon a corner stone in an angle of
ho was here? Turn my face to him.'
 admired her, and asked that man to lend
s weakness, which was wonderful to see. 
heads.
ll strike you dead?"
pliance with the terms of this agreement
ton, very gently; "don't grieve. I encou
or's putting out his hand to stop him. W
owly through the streets. Therefore, he 
f armoury, my love."
ou not?"
een me and those brothers.
ed! And it was done--why, how old are yo
"Of all the people upon earth, you least
"It was when you came in."
nhabitants are, in their innermost perso
ed Mr. Lorry.
o me than wrong, more to me--Well! This 
kets, passed along on his way to his bre
ers was Jerry Cruncher himself, who mode
ld inquiry:
nger, and that some had been dragged out
at she may identify them. I believe," sa
 Marquis, flambeau preceded, went from h
retch! What are you worth! I address mys
air, urging one another, and themselves,
"You can bear a little more light?"
sing along the streets. The very childre
. This is to tell him you are there."
sel directed every step that lay before 
Making his way through the tainted crowd
is arms, with his hair straggling over t
he turnkey he crawled upon the hearth, a
On the night of the day on which he left
y with an electronic work by people who 
r foaled.
e young lady, and, between ourselves, I 
 there, and can show the way. Gentlemen,
sent to prison, and charged with murder!
LED TO LIFE."
 Lord Mayor of London, was made to stand
 could have been anybody's business, at 
"Good night, citizen."
on't be frightened! How you start!"
story, sir; and I begin to think"--the c
were pretty far advanced on your way to 
"Rely upon the patriotic Jury, dear citi
publicans, and that he would be in effec
rcible to repeat.
sappearance; howbeit, the Saint took cou
e put her needless candle in the shadow 
handy fellow as an act of charity--never
repressible cry. Almost at the same mome
e was got near his destination, and bega
"Say gallantry, while you are about it,"
u suppose--you go so far as to suppose, 
ask had tumbled out with a run, the hoop
 personal affliction, deprivation, and w
 express a strong desire to have the hon
and beheaded; the Republic of Liberty, E
in him before; yet, he had some pleasure
nt man at my side."
outside?"
which there had been early drinking at t
"Provincial," said the spy.
this name should be--unless he, the Doct
 me out. The parting interview has overp
had put Mr. Stryver's blood-vessels into
ard overflowed with the Carmagnole. Then
lite air.
hese things shall be answered for. I den
on my telling Mrs. Cruncher as much as I
ry to say I could have gained nothing by
 little pride left, sometimes. She--have
Sullenly enough, the jackal loosened his
arraigned.
, or computer codes that damage or canno
changeable face, Monseigneur looked out.
s nothing angry or estranged between us,
remonde! Any person but this miserable f
s tools aside as useless, until morning,
"Very good. Then I give it, and you have
he affectionate brother you have heard o
"Don't prevaricate," said Mr. Lorry.
ged until nightfall, when he had lost tw
 the thing is dropped, because it would 
He still had his wig and gown on, and he
e along, decorated with little pikes, an
sister; but I am called, and I must go!"
klessly, Charles Darnay did not allow th
 it to be the most difficult of all; but
ry homage of the low."
fortune, and my good fortune, that has k
d her father went out, now reappeared, a
to the door, and bent to carry it away.
place, condemned to die within twenty-fo
ng ducked to death, and that Cly was so 
let me ask you--does the Doctor, in talk
nd read, she had neither engaged herself
him. While he was at a loss, Carton said
a little man with a redundancy of gestur
er an uneasy pause, "it is very hard to 
s to come into fashion, Jerry!"
ble of close application of mind, and gr
way. Gentlemen, adieu!"
axim is, Confound their politics, Frustr
rpose--and with a pieman, also attended 
oor as the miserable people. Everything 
om!" cried Miss Pross, "to give me such 
in a faltering voice, "that I heard stra
oot and charcoal from the chimney, mixed
nd stone flowers, and stone faces of men
e you are such an insensible dog."
aid Solomon. "Does he think me a ghost?"
d the same speech out of him as before t
hould let the time go by until the regul
Lucie sat by her father; Darnay sat besi
d itself away from the beach, and ran it
t Antoine wrote his crimes on flaring sh
"Did you ever see a counterfeit of timid
, work of that kind was being done in th
It could scarcely be called a trade, in 
use the love of my poor mother hid his t
not often troubling himself to reflect t
us mother.
 grounds, sprinkled with the thorns and 
to propose to another to walk on a littl
e it alone. In short, must leave it alon
nd condemning all to death who return. T
ll the voices were in the prisoner's fav
t he was to be kept from flying out of t
iness, ever since I have been a man. Ind
been ranged on Temple Bar instead of bei
her mother. The other had that likeness 
 prison-window, when I could not bear he
It portended that there was one stone fa
nder of roads went forth daily to hammer
ike about their heads in the evening air
is other recovered faculties; but, this 
d." He suggested it, by creasing his fac
sired to know.
n, in an altered voice. "Forgive me if I
 Never in a debtors' prison?--Come, once
it as his safest place, said:
t burning on the large hearth, he let hi
t or refund set forth in paragraph 1.F.3
"What is it in your hand?"
 to come, I see the evil of this time an
dation's EIN or federal tax identificati
ort down.
tiger and the devil chained--not shown--
 or fewer words, the Public Prosecutor.
 and laid her face upon his breast. In t
"I was much engaged that day, and could 
 being detected and consigned to an unde
his Monseigneur had been got out of Pari
ly calling out to have him killed with g
en half moved to do it, so strange it wa
eceived.
tenberg-tm electronic works even without
e subject; the assassination at the dese
o make another admission, "nobody can do
Book the Second--the Golden Thread
 nightcaps elsewhere (and not so far off
id, in a lower voice, after a pause:
rvals, shall remain untold. The mad joy 
farge, rather troubled; "in general, I s
wly paced up and down his platform, not 
ves satisfied that the accusation agains
d sixty.
ork associated in any way with the phras
, and even went near it, to get the bonn
 was, as usual, a cold one," observed th
oman, there is, in her heart, towards yo
e should know there is such a man as I h
isons, that all political prisoners had 
 scoops of their two hands joined, and s
"Really, is bad enough," returned Miss P
"It is not often," said the second of th
le. Everything was bowed down, dejected,
Madame Defarge returned to her counter t
cian."
tenderer sort of fellow than _you_."
Madame Defarge cast down her eyes, and r
 to your knowledge, miss, I should think
ce followed. Defarge went last, and clos
breast--looked steadily at him.
en darkened by this deed of horror; and 
ly found that vulgar embarrassments crep
t on the staircase, first shutting and l
This was the Carmagnole. As it passed, l
. Is there no old banker, no old busines
 them for your own advantage, you would 
what I was coming to see, I could have c
m within the influence of the Loadstone 
the evidence which it is your duty to gi
sons, of the foreigner against the Repub
door," said Madame Defarge.
oom with a measured tread to where the w
t I had seen that nobleman very lately.
ffectionately embraced.
gneur was in his inner room, his sanctua
d he refolded his little packet and trie
Miss Pross recalled soon afterwards, and
ck to him. He worked hard--impatiently--
ver and for ever, when I had read but a 
 You are not going out, I hope?"
he military drums should be beating to d
of our own, pillaged and plundered to th
oncerning Doctor Manette's imprisonment,
ommitted under Heaven. Altogether, the O
ng particularly shining about them but t
sts of his Majesty's forces, and of thei
y pale, was calmly studious and attentiv
e the skies with, talked with Unbelievin
tting with a poor little weak creature l
st as many wrappers from the eyes of the
llowed the thought that much of the futu
"'You are Doctor Manette?' said one.
ive hundred people, and they were dancin
 take Ladybird's affections away from me
ind of security from the patriotic occup
mined to hold it.
tor and agent of all mischief so much sp
"I did, Joe."
as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
m his slip of paper for a moment.
the Loadstone Rock
 her handkerchief, in a chain of separat
ngland. Early to-morrow have your horses
as all we common dogs are by those super
both people of business," he said, when 
luntarily, in response to that written a
e had heard of her going to the prison e
ighter had let these down, and lighted, 
oing up to Heaven.
e wailing children.
"If you had," pursued Mr. Lorry, "perhap
"Pass that torch slowly along these wall
out of close love, as well as out of wid
gning with his hand, Jerry attracted the
le. "Influence; he says something touchi
riumph. But even if not, even if I knew 
     A Companion Picture      Chapter XI
when I had first seen her. I was alone w
nion, and friend; but to come in aid of 
had not been sown--as if nothing had eve
raggedly cut, but not very long, a hollo
self, therefore. Come hither, little cit
ction, recalled them, leaned back in his
o him.
u have business before you; useful busin
 his musket. "Peace, aristocrat!"
d have great hope. He, yielding under th
Carton, still drinking the punch, rejoin
"Her husband's destiny," said Madame Def
s to slake her devouring thirst. Liberty
ight, and half from the overcast day, wa
in at the wine-shop, as they looked in a
yers."
rned upon them.
t was the season of Darkness, it was the
light was playing on its surface, and I 
come back; he was really here. And yet h
"Without doubt. You are consigned, Evrem
"Is there any noise in the streets?" she
 never for his sake striven all day and 
arge; but, neither of the two took much 
e for getting out and running--hiding--d
aid serene, illustrious, excellent, and 
?"
"'I congratulate you, my brother,' were 
"I would not keep it," said Mr. Lorry, s
reminded of Defarge the wine-shop keeper
 would be in danger of turning in the un
Replacement or Refund" described in para
 to it; in part, the result of afflictio
General, carrying an appropriate cane wi
 litter they had brought to the door, an
es, to erase himself from existence, tha
hief Secretary of State and most honoura
e other, "could hardly have been more af
wrong."
rk room, watching and waiting for Lightn
"I dare say not," rejoined Stryver, nodd
, placed my hands upon her breast to cal
ate demonstrations; but no.
hat they are covered with dust, and that
is shoulders; "there may be, or there wi
as like a congenial friend, in the morni
yourselves at the head of as many of the
ne of the keepers here, and in virtue of
wded to the grates and shed tears there;
s's denial of her own imagination, there
alking up and down, walking up and down,
see them all, in this my cell in the Bas
ature there held life as of no account, 
tary courtyard, we are not likely to be 
moment I lose sight," touching the back 
 waters has a centre point, so, all this
rly in the scuffle, and sneak away."
ul time as could be kept from the knowle
 letter. The peril of an old servant and
 at Three o'Clock, or as near it as you 
"Hark!" said The Vengeance. "Listen, the
 condition of the body after death."
, or any man's to them!--I doubt if they
wine, and hot coffee. Monsieur Defarge p
y was fearful of his drinking himself in
nation and inquiry. Monsieur Defarge ali
he cruel story, of her husband's share i
"Such are not my orders. You will be vis
y.
 air of cheerfulness and courage, for hi
ht from the stormy deep such wrecks of f
able, had deepened into one of pain and 
 wine, drawer, and come and wake me at t
He stooped a little, and with his tatter
d not against, according to your command
."
s buried in London, at the church of Sai
e! Light Monsieur my nephew to his chamb
eath a stone, or tile, or some fragment 
 person from a swoon, or endeavouring, i
have my head took off, if he was ever in
rangement that may be," said Miss Pross,
"Yes," said Carton, pausing again, and a
d, 'Is it a pressing case?'
e governor who had defended the Bastille
True, but not an English woman.
"And you?" said the uncle. "Forgive my c
 time?"
: whereupon, although it was a large dou
hem in his cap, and produced them. Casti
nd nearer to the else-deserted lodging i
knife.
"No, no! What have you done, what have y
't be prayed agin, I tell you. I can't a
The night comes on dark. He moves more; 
ied the man, "if you will come with me. 
t it may come to. Good night!"
dow and sneezed into the sack. It was th
 tending eastward from the sun, both eve
ience have taken his oath on the two Tes
me from you, to-morrow--"
y his face would be turned, whether he w
you were before you knew me--"
cely mean quite that, either."
ner's schemes, and, struck with horror, 
ners in the House were proud of its smal
Unanimously voted. At heart and by desce
 away.
ion of the hands is not so much as suspe
 come."
"I do not understand you."
"Our family; our honourable family, whos
drawn himself, but that the wigged gentl
cument was done. A sound of craving and 
 motion to the coach, as if it were in a
flat and tame in its extreme submission.
hat she may know them--that she may iden
as in the courtyard when Mr. Lorry regai
Therefore, when the breakfast was done a
a quiet smile, as he shakes his hair a l
"I know," said Darnay, respectfully, "ho
e small modicum of firewood that the man
The nervousness and dread that were upon
y you are."
tted that Charles was not there; was mor
"Why, you're at it afore my face!" said 
Loud acclamations hailed this rebuke. Th
in my hand, and her empty chair ready fo
 and the rider's bridle (at which he was
the side of the grindstone, and looking 
e blotting out, was as well known to him
ard to say:
erday. I must finish my record to-day.
the common people dispersed before his h
im, and, surrounding his house, summoned
neral preparation for business. In the m
?"
vengeful and fitful, the innocent were s
Worn out by anxious watching, Mr. Lorry 
nsensible; with her eyes open and fixed 
 his face, was cruelly, craftily, and cl
e chain--like this."
ter), conducted by four post-horses and 
med as Public Domain in the U.S. unless 
ke steadily.
"Barsad," said Defarge, making it French
s Pross again, presently.
 turned from it with a sick feeling, and
you shall know my name, and who my mothe
y; "what is this despondency in the brav
 stood beside her, "was much fatigued an
"If it had pleased _God_ to put it in th
 to your agreeable little friend, Miss M
her."
nters in which she had been engaged, she
the old air of avoidance and dread had l
ll spun round together: then the ring br
id the Marquis, throwing him another gol
lop, Tom," returned the guard, leaving h
ee the batch of to-day executed.--You?"
orn. Then, he softly called, "Enter ther
- You comply with all other terms of thi
uaintance he had first made at the Royal
 on the road, it is on the road and comi
 arrangements made in the courtyard here
urious recklessness of the man brought n
ess is a very good thing, and a very res
g yourself? And you a Frenchman born? Yo
on, when I enter a great city by night, 
dropped his voice, there was a flutter a
You was a spy--witness at the Bailey. Wh
promise on it of healthy life or wholeso
rvation of Charles Darnay.
d with permission of the copyright holde
"Yes! But it is your weakness that you s
 own, preserved through all those years,
creep to bed, as it usually did, but cam
"The rain-drops are still falling, large
ce occupied, and then for England!"
 in the corner, on the fine Sunday after
-Blacksmith's work, Blacksmith's work. W
by giving instruction in the French lang
hed privileges to the infamous oppressio
e to guide this raging Revolution that w
d times, and would be to-morrow, if caus
 of the oldest of clerks to Jerry the me
re where to stop; not me!"
The bill being paid, Charles Darnay rose
ul of brandy, and drank it off. He saw t
tleman of sixty, formally dressed in a b
 braced purpose in the arm and a kind of
s for suggesting improvements in laws an
seigneur had the other truly noble idea 
e hours.
r victims. With an inconsistency as mons
 1.E.8.
"English?" asked Madame Defarge, inquisi
d re-echoed with the tread of feet; some
n the meanwhile, be silent!"
 If the Day of Judgment had only been as
it will always be as plain to her as the
le was drawn before the fire, and as he 
r. Crush humanity out of shape once more
, after a long and fearful storm. I rele
nation followed, for the court was quick
 footsteps passed along distant passages
f three-fourths of the notes in the whol
en, for his life, to read or write. When
men were there who had gone out of the w
our hand steady enough to write?"
spectfully, "how can I fail to know, Doc
m, and he had never gone away. A pause o
nd well! I don't know why anything shoul
 be found at the Foundation's web site a
--when the cry seemed to go up, all over
 stood close by one another, as his fath
k to her, and come to the banking-house 
e reality of mist and rain on his cheek.
"The elder brother looked to the younger
erest to know what they are."
 Monsieur Defarge. "Is all the spilt win
 Lorry observed a great change to have c
 feeble and fitful. Soon afterwards the 
m to dismount. He did so, and the two pa
red, took her in, and took her away.
and do. Saint Antoine's blood was up, an
tly, the chateau began to make itself st
astonishment at Jerry.
e to dwell upon the point. Confused, but
 width of the public way, and, with thei
 corner of a small winding street. The h
e anything is suffered or done: the shad
ter of business. Regard it as a matter o
of the time swept by, so strong and deep
"Tom!" softly over the coach roof.
"At what hour did he come on board?"
, which will grow to maturity under cond
 the Bar, that while Mr. Stryver was a g
his favourite in his arms? To whom did h
nd the gentleman."
op on the floor.
ning to keeping a most vigilant watch on
ach? I shall never feel her weight."
other. Indeed, except for the mere act o
st unearthly cry, "Dead!"
 longer, he turned himself about, that h
ept for you."
om and had sat down there in friendly re
om, his sanctuary of sanctuaries, the Ho
 held life in the boy but his determinat
he Doctor's arm again, after a short sil
the last, Jacques, prolonged until night
rees environing the old chateau, keeping
had a coach in waiting.
 their own sombre lives. He knew enough 
tain, washing leaves, and grasses, and a
 left at sunset (as I had been warned to
rance--until three days ago; when he had
"It is a painful reflection to me," said
 sallow; nose aquiline, but not straight
ing some other entertainment for itself,
ur, and because Monseigneur was the fath
"If, without disturbing him," she said, 
 two figures, a young lady of little mor
ot make anything at all of them, and mus
mouth.
, such dread and terror, that Mr. Lorry 
s day preserved for a prosperous and hap
g?"
oking down at his wife as he stood smoki
ed in the outer courtyard of the Bastill
on?"
 business mind of Mr. Lorry when busines
e man of business, "is, of course, frien
vered with dust, but he cannot touch it;
ccount. And I am really very much oblige
ed, was still lighted up under the quain
, what if it were identified, what if th
"My love, the staircase is as still as D
 happen to him without my knowledge, and
 not--"
t any time, on her own part, such a conf
ace die out!'
 nephew looked at him, in vain, in passi
engendered came through the brown upon h
t have been. Frequently? No. Ever kicked
 the poor live stock, and lead the bony 
 looking at his watch, "without any scru
, ordered the woman away, and said in a 
d would quash his last chance of life. B
; the night in its vermin-haunted cells 
e the honour of cherishing some interest
olds it as he promised. He gently places
"But ask yourself the question now."
Mr. Cruncher came forward sideways, with
Quick! Have you got it?"
ecutive and Director      gbnewby@pglaf.
 her, in the Section of Saint Antoine, o
ty. The truth is, my dear Charles," Mr. 
chaff that had stood surprisingly long, 
vacant darkness, and stood with that bla
"'He! Proud as these nobles are, he is a
 see what I hold,--Mr. Lorry, you know w
im; but, he was so confused, and so very
igible, you are eligible."
 not!"
 he repeated, without any change of emph
s I was! My tea, my dear! Thank ye. Now,
er if he seeks to lodge in your village 
il it was time to return to Tellson's an
t his one urgent and express request to 
on!"
 not command her voice.
and making it predominate nowhere, Lucie
th all the engaging graces and courtesie
othing that hung upon poles and lines; H
"There is no better," the voluble Vengea
r of the dawning Republic one and indivi
o his own power and pocket. Of his pleas
s me like a dead man."
 gesture of protest, which was so clearl
an whose life was in his hand, as Mr. At
or ever and ever. The exquisite gentleme
There was but a gaoler left, along with 
ok to its knitting again.
ion turned his face to that side of the 
 in the tone of one who really was looki
wer the window, to get the reality of mi
tion in general terms, and spoke of Sydn
ur breast when you were young and free, 
yer, the Ecclesiastic, the Grand Opera, 
p of the stairs, and, leaving seated the
ervices would have sustained him in that
e and cap, as a good citizen must, and i
er flambeau held at the great door, burn
After a long silence, the head was lifte
 the Loadstone Rock, and it was drawing 
hey had ceased to pay; that I had collec
V. The Wine-shop
"Yes, unhappily."
one heard them as they went about with m
it a particularly curious coincidence; m
 the freedom beyond the fortress. I have
n window, looking for the father and dau
es of the Republic?
had a voice in the selection of my patte
 daughter, Miss Manette."
ous as a kind of deadly inn-yard, from w
d. The father had long ago taken up his 
 had written to Lucie in accordance with
it of clothes Mr. Stryver had fitted on 
 man.
"You think not, sir?"
ilation, and I have not his reason for r
at the black night for three heavy hours
friend got into it, and he took his seat
s shop, was smoking his pipe at his shop
ning over the dock, could fold her in hi
 days of his imprisonment recalled. He h
 up anew at your feet, think now and the
that Miss Pross and Jerry, who were at l
her affection, and with Sydney's friendl
A man with a bloated face opened the str
was did, that he was never safe; that fl
I saw them all that night.
he crowning unreality of his long unreal
r advice; you know the young lady better
 sentiment, and passionate revenge.
 Temple Bar. If your business necessitat
ten. Your life is in your own hands. Qui
 and all awry with howling, and all star
Tellson's. Carton, who smelt of port win
her did he call it a curious coincidence
ce:
 and went out.
uch a man as I here." And he turned his 
owing the letters with his swart forefin
had ever been so complimented, and Madam
ike a heavy cloud, ever since. As he pas
ver, I claim to characterise for myself-
The billet fell as he spoke, and he thre
he skill of a man accustomed to make his
erg-tm electronic works, harmless from a
ight be best.
hose were always left wide open.
he had merely "asked a blessing."
Volunteers and financial support to prov
ss--he stationed Miss Pross much nearer 
body together. The prison on the crag wa
beams across. Hay and straw were stored 
t of their race, I, Alexandre Manette, u
ss. The citizeness looking at him, he be
ess and, danger, appeared with folded ar
th a wary "Wo-ho! so-ho-then!" the near 
ted it? Yes, he had. From whom? Distant 
ly not. Never in a debtors' prison? Didn
sly. "Don't be nettled, Mr. Lorry. You a
Sometimes, we strike into the skirting m
ime when the public lamps were lighted, 
s his name. The guard, the coachman, and
 to the outer door, and, touching him on
d no more, she would pause to listen, an
es from coming here, and were to wait so
 mere dictionary knowledge, young Mr. Da
"What did you say?"
ne," he said, with a musing face. "Shall
Saint Antoine slept, the Defarges slept:
istant beating of the military drums in 
 private watchmen (all awaricious and al
 ordinary exercise of their functions, l
ssociated with the production, promotion
wn in a hurry, and there were twenty han
said Stryver, nodding his head over him 
escended nearly to the wearer's knees. W
 him to eat and drink, and put on the cl
the witness encountered by appointment, 
the House of which he had grown to be a 
r," said the Marquis; "still, I prefer t
e interval that he might be able, after 
er life! For, they are headlong, mad, an
ttle counter, as to the striking of a li
ble lords at Court drawing-rooms; musket
ittle before he answered:
to his housetop behind his stack of chim
ectable bank gentleman like you, to be s
to pass through that part, to get at the
pon anything in Fleet-street during the 
in, she was surprised and saddened to se
a, la, la; La, la, la! And off his head 
air and my knitting for me, I am come to
was with you in La Force."
 and eighty-nine, Mr. Lorry came in late
y own sister. Just as I am getting on!"
berality--"I'd catch hold of your throat
u have. Don't hurry."
ed a conversation.
rnay."
 Old Bailey in their lives, in the reali
 applies himself with great ardour to th
hen their proceedings, for when he and D
.
Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in p
h."
ve 'em out, and to pull 'em out, mobbed 
gantly spurning figures and handsomely d
d the audience. "An enemy to the Republi
nd--separated him from the rest, and got
As he walked to and fro with his resolut
nient on his faults when he is not by. I
ruck at from behind; remained immovable 
 lost her colour, and the old and intent
ldom have a child there. It is a pretty 
mp dimly gleaming through them, and the 
id. But it always looks up, from a dista
avy, and the gunmaker's stock was murder
of that tribunal and that auditory, to s
d mended, such gallant swords to look at
ips.
"I will remember them. I hope to do my p
py in lieu of a refund.  If you received
m, and clapped her hands as at a play.
oo much, would be to put this man's head
But the man continuing to exclaim, "Down
Sydney.
ess for my father's state, and I am sure
 at a certain convenient height from the
hter!"
"Is sought by any other suitor?"
n the purity of her faith in this lost m
s scene of action, with the skill of a m
was an infamous prosecution, grossly inf
r employee of the Foundation, anyone pro
 Jacques Two.
ld swallow in the course of a night, wit
"You are a luckier, if you mean that."
h doors, the one mourner scuffled out of
"If you knew what a conflict goes on in 
ame Defarge's frequent expressions of im
want."
ng; in which condition, indeed, as to th
id Darnay--
ident that he saw it vividly; perhaps he
htening her to death? Look at her, with 
Cly's burial, which I happened to have c
about him of having feigned death and co
not draw it. I am stronger than you, I b
omen, brown-haired, black-haired, and gr
shown him lounging in the window.
ave less need to make myself agreeable t
to Life
ry's veins, methodical as their courses 
seen the shoemaker at his work before, a
tle Lucie held out her chubby arms, and 
d her.
here appeared to be not half desk enough
as of sixty dressed and supped as at twe
 this:--If the Republic really does good
umsy, and he is lame. Because he is lame
h her head down, held her round the wais
reat London, than on that night when it 
 was conducted to this chamber straight,
Council. That, this patriot would be pro
ir last earthly bed, and I know that eac
aulted chamber, crowded with prisoners o
ocean, ready to take that plunge into it
ends."
put to Death; the coiner of a bad shilli
g; and the roar of the city changed to t
 borrowed in a rather peremptory manner 
n faces there were, carried higher, seve
opeless mass of decomposition so engende
Here he paid a heavy price for his escor
On these few steps of his dangerous way,
-shoe. It is in the present mode. I neve
ery ill, and, turning to his mother, str
 his post by the window in the same room
l boy's Kite without tail and wings. It 
seven in number--so fixedly contrasting 
th it to be looked after. Thus, Tellson'
nd, were perhaps observed by the spies w
his perpendicular.
siness had, within a few days, taken him
 such shapes to the mare as arose out of
edly rejoined, "nothing for you. My duty
lt, looked to a smaller chest beneath hi
 and since) that whenever her original p
er, "that he warn't never in it. No! Not
she had taken the white head to her fres
 was Stryver's great ally. What the two 
eath--"a slight relapse."
him out of the air, and I had made a bed
nd of their changed life many weeks, whe
ead under it, that, suddenly animated, s
 would have got away at all but for that
pping her hands again. "After not settin
h one on England's part. He added, in a 
etter I had written, showed it me, burnt
mes upon the unborn child from whom I ha
 revolutionary committees all over the l
Sounds that he was not afraid of, for he
which shaved close: who kissed La Guillo
 a little anger:
ghbourhood, was ill-smelling. Monsieur D
 was, struck at it, struck out a flash a
 misty river, blurred to the eye with bl
o any work requiring nicety in such obsc
"La Force! Lucie, my child, if ever you 
s not in your nature to forget them.'"
ither food nor drink; "the guard, horse 
 you ought to know. You are a man of bus
atter, and an inhuman abandonment of con
quickened; but he repressed all other si
t witness. He also referred with confide
ter IV     Calm in Storm      Chapter V 
e, when a rattling of wheels came up the
women who scarcely lifted their eyes to 
ages and ages.
 in my imprisonment, when my desire for 
ong main staircase when he stopped, and 
th set, tied a very terrible knot indeed
e, for nothing would turn the man.
"Because," said Mr. Lorry, "I wouldn't g
aning against the wall opposite to him, 
d his compeers in this particular, any m
voices of women were conspicuous--gave h
ghter, resolved to make her happiness kn
of the matter. I carry about me, not a s
 rising on his elbow. "Two leagues beyon
 I have had trouble enough to get you to
osing the Bank, there was a general set 
Now, when the journey of the travelling 
t mind it troubled him greatly.
 what impended (he had been half moved t
 him, I came on, now riding and now walk
one. Now if this doctor's wife, though a
 as a parricide. One old man says at the
arth, messieurs, to where the sky rests 
came into a large, low, vaulted chamber,
ittle longer; it cannot deceive them too
r seat thoughtfully in the chair by whic
e to her lips. She asked me where she wa
The smooth manner of the spy, curiously 
 up in the old manner, and repeated in t
Sadly, sadly, the sun rose; it rose upon
however."
. For the first time in many years, he h
were sharp and bright, the smith's hamme
had suffered so intensely from this caus
nsive transactions in blood-money, anoth
ed out loudly for assistance without mov
ther or no, the mender of roads ran, on 
ction. I must see Lorry."
m, and all quite in vain;--then the hist
ave in their mouths, and hard lives they
en done a year, and he had never yet, by
t with the confidence of a man who had s
"A pretty pattern too!"
uished surgeon--on his way back.
arquis looked, with the air of one who w
 flickering streak played behind the arc
 prisons to their prisoners. The standar
had yielded:--not without disquiet, but 
Darnay complied, and was taken back to t
n him. He always resolutely answered: "N
And all the worse for the doomed man, th
 of refreshment and fell sound asleep af
lation of the patient; for, in her restl
had discharged the office of purveyors; 
riages of Monseigneur yet stood. Against
and said, "Where shall I commence, monsi
 nephew," said the Marquis, touching him
 Ball that was never to leave off. From 
 always to be seen in any clerk at Tells
 unknown to you, Doctor, if it is now--h
tually summoned before the Tribunal. He 
nuity of the hands, for the ingenuity of
 awaiting the moment of his death. She w
"You know him, you have said. Do you kno
ur object to be, purely and truthfully, 
surmounted by an iron railing. In the sh
l extinguished in the passages, the iron
as to be doomed to be so shamefully mang
It was remarkable; but, the taste of Sai
ry, "be sensibly relieved if he could pr
 Lorry.
-shop, in the suburb of Saint Antoine in
ers of one of his hands strayed to his l
 feathery snow fell as quietly and lay a
d him, all eyes, ears, and spikes.
"A--a matter of business. You confuse me
se, nonsense! When I have executed this 
 manners of an earlier date, as he made 
ides the one, were plodding up the hill 
se messenger, glancing at his mare. "'Re
e Marquis, now in his grave, listened to
tinous intent of taking it back to Black
In the submissive way of one long accust
 farewell to her by you."
her, to-night, what you know of her dang
sented him breathless to Monsieur the Ma
glish that an Englishman is less open to
ued forth. Then, what submission, what c
e Condemned; and then she clung closer t
other hid his torture from me, weep for 
akfast rather than ate it, growling over
ten, as I now see you; except that I nev
one swamp our small staff.
in hand, which happened to be the old bu
l the fifteen were condemned, and the tr
or the running up and down the stairs; n
e disposed to spare him--which is a larg
 which there were a few smith's tools, a
ept the matter a profound secret, even f
ible tears into her eyes. This was a cou
"This is the man."
!"
 are pursued.
d (perhaps with George Washington on his
 behind them, until they came into a lar
ings then, north of the Oxford-road, and
swered "Yes."
es are often turned up to some of them, 
n their turn. But, the fierce figures we
ists could not be proved to be in the pr
ged for the worse. Our not remote ancest
, pumps, and white silk stockings." At t
ppose the man is."
. He took up another that was lying by h
the hold of a drowning woman.
 same: "Almost eighteen years."
 see him, and where she now stood lookin
hought?"
e Bar, the real business of the past day
It sheared off heads so many, that it, a
"I remember it too. The curse of those o
"It is frightful, messieurs. How can the
r.
esire I have, is to forget that I belong
Forgive me if I notice that you are affe
ver there, seem not to be able to confid
ll, though he echoed his word. "Well; he
His face had become frozen, as it were, 
"Ah! A child too! Your mother, is it not
the prisoner's mind. Be that as it may, 
t I know she must have told his brother-
speak; but, his spirit spoke with a drea
is, hanging by the chain. Behold the man
and a straw bed. There were the four bla
hted, towards their next destination. Th
ataleptic on the spot--thereby setting u
tice the influence of her look, on Sydne
ed to bid my learned friend lay aside hi
s mouth. Once, he went aloft, and the ro
seeking assistance and power in vain."
nd sisters, and honoured him more than h
azed and deafened by two immense process
t my hand can find to do, without that. 
I had anxiously considered what I ought 
ocent of any. Is it likely? Who would th
ut ill-blood on either side."
rincipally occupied with the cares of ot
u!"
e. This citizen," pointing out the secon
. "Good night, Mr. Darnay. Shall we ever
 of Liberty;" which sounded in that plac
re a king with a large jaw and a queen w
e; and this, too, I resolved to state in
 every day. Long live the Devil. Let us 
me, plentiful enough fur to bring the pr
way the gates of God's own Temple every 
natural and right; so, take the lead, my
any pieces as he will, the sword that he
ad lasted all day, and the lamps in the 
he world who must uphold him in his mise
them and swept by; but when they had don
hich most kinds of debauchery and villai
e how could you know it? Nonsense!"
im last night, and Barsad. The people ha
ame.
"The other patient lay in a back room ac
peless to entreat him further, and his p
"Is he always alone, then?"
 noise with very little resemblance in i
ry thoughtful!" Mr. Lorry grasped his ha
ry of your youthful spirit, Mr. Lorry."
rsionary interest in the straw his fathe
h I have been surrounded all day long, h
ad prepared every inch of his road.
A singular circumstance then arose in th
 exalted respect for it, that in the ret
e had his own head quivered on his shoul
eral rose to spin the rope, grind the ax
. While one external cause, and that a r
e lost. There are no medicines to be obt
 free.
he lifted her again, and carried her up 
 cried the distracted Miss Pross, "and I
nter the carriage?'
 or love of country. That, the lofty exa
ed,' he answered; 'let it be.'
s Godmother: who would send out for a fo
st merchant in London. So with the three
orry laid his hand upon Defarge's arm; "
necessity of being always actively emplo
at he had never seen.
Perhaps, to observe whether he had any s
d upon him, gardens in which the fruits 
 is to be took into account that if it w
one might be listened to, and might have
ided to a foot pace, swinging and lumber
leman, my learned friend there," pointin
rtake to say even that."
 heart of a lost child."
ll opposed to her; she stood in dread of
eave their wounded behind, and why not? 
His judges sat upon the Bench in feather
 away, but lured him back again. They we
und the worn face of a little boy, and h
ve faces, yet with a suspended--not an a
 like to die.'
 Carton came and took her up. Only her f
distinctions."
id he was not arrived."
his mind drifted him on, faster and fast
ere made the dingier by their own iron b
d his informant. "Yaha! Tst! Yah! Old Ba
 in his mind, he did not discuss with hi
"I mean of him. Of my father."
tly disengaging himself from her enfoldi
 a vivid flash which had shown him loung
reak its silence with a long sigh as he 
The time went very slowly on, and Mr. Lo
and basin, he returned with such eccentr
ve been more famine-pinched.
nce, and its counsel, Mr. Stryver, stood
ring, in the hot sunshine of summer, in 
-pot into the sacred presence; a second,
ady. The young lady, my good sir," said 
 spilled. It had stained many hands, too
h my compliments. You may also tell him,
; stalwart men and old; gentle born and 
. Save him!"
er Solomon, "I am not surprised; I knew 
e was in her hand. Everywhere was tumult
 with a draught of wine--but, he took le
mes ninepence are, or how many shillings
mb. This, from Jacques."
aves of burning red and golden yellow st
rey, if you wish him to bring it down on
siding over the customers. Madame Defarg
reat shoes, stuffed with leaves and gras
eople less fortunate than the mender of 
ng."
 the third cart. The horsemen abreast of
"
 you than of these others."
th an unchanged front, except as to the 
llous of witnesses. The little citizen, 
rning to night, enough to think about, w
me; I imagined that she always brought m
ung lady, and they, too, went out. Madam
he storm within the fortress and without
 getting at its pith and marrow; and how
 as softly as her lips had moved in pray
l office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
 not so rapidly as to come up with Monse
r off in the fields. It got there in cou
gree that I shouldn't know, if it wasn't
 it on the supplicatory fingers that cla
he night. All this while, Defarge, with 
e more than ten years old; you might hav
looking at her, with his knee on his ben
nible at any of the many windows; not ev
nsieur heretofore the Marquis, I send my
t to go to him and dress the wound, the 
itizen, his own attached friend, the fat
or a shade (the old gentleman could not 
ated. I thank you, Darnay. I may use tha
n emigrant, whose life was forfeit to th
 woman," said he, "a strong woman, a gra
 you dine? I dined, myself, while those 
tered for an instant; then went on as be
. It is a similar certificate, enabling 
Tellson's for the first time in his life
es and fears and anxieties with which it
had better do it."
"A bad truth for you," said Defarge, spe
is character or fortunes is reparable no
ore. I see Her with a child upon her bos
 his son-in-law was among the living pri
ith sextons, and wot with private watchm
ts and to the ear with harsh noises, sho
my father's twin-brother, joint inherito
arked, and the owl made a noise with ver
ctionable decoration was gone, or Saint 
enunciation by Madame Defarge. I know it
 One of her sisterhood knitted beside he
 and more polite to me than the elder; b
hope to do my part faithfully."
 to death," said Miss Pross: whose chara
d slowly drawing a hand across his flori
e wore, and looked around him! "Listen, 
his men complain sometimes, of being exh
rimson. "It will die out," said Monsieur
t our said serene, illustrious, excellen
ost impossible--it is, for him to force 
Defarge came in breathless, pulled off a
ything in their surprise. For, it must b
 at Carton with clouded eyes and with an
s stack of chimneys; this time resolved,
ne, are round your neck. I know that in 
Cruncher. "No games to-morrow! If I, as 
ostilions follow, sucking and plaiting t
The emphatic horse, cut short by the whi
r had followed him, when Mr. Lorry's fee
 garret.
 are lost to me," said the nephew, sadly
 better still of the Republic by rooting
 say, will she?"
es, in the modesty and virtue of our sis
s of mutilated earthenware, or even with
her day. Until then, though no one was e
ceful, useful, prosperous and happy, in 
erately advise me not to go up to Soho a
t off. He saw that the spy was fearful o
t stint, boom smash and rattle, and the 
es which Mr. Lorry felt to be the only s
th the corn bright in it, but not abunda
hese darkening objects as the night drew
was usually performed a good two hours e
ons are evil," said Miss Pross, "and you
 fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMED
 copy, or a means of obtaining a copy up
hose times, they quietly spoke of Lucie,
press one question on me, if I beg you n
l was in use--to live by his own industr
Growling, in addition, such phrases as "
"I assure you," returned Mr. Stryver, in
es to which Lucie, sometimes pensive, so
 the man."
shadow was exchanged for the light of a 
 bare-breasted, bare-armed, soot-begrime
d earnestness, the Jury and the populace
n marks that follow here, I leave off fo
s under the control of the Defarges, and
XXI. Echoing Footsteps
, in which he found great relief. "You s
t to-night; you cannot possibly stir out
the old spears and knives, and passed la
er counter, as usual, presiding over the
nd raised the man. She was too much occu
 in what a curiously reserved and mechan
heer up, and have a thankful heart."
rs rang like precious little bells; and 
lady at present in question is a mincing
Mr. Stryver, whom he warmly thanked. Mr.
te out. It was impossible for Monseigneu
etter for the prosecution, as showing th
r; to the last."
y, until Young Jerry was ordered to bed,
oked rich under her coarse red cap. Lyin
 would have remembered home and friends 
air, and cast a troubled look towards th
of them out of harm's way, is within the
nde, and new offences, since you were he
"Oh, for gracious sake!" cried Miss Pros
 The sagacity of the man of business per
ed by that agitated face as he was? Come
 by four strong horses. That old man say
"Guard!" said the passenger, in a tone o
n intent look, deepening into a frown of
"The little child was a daughter, sir."
ectionately on the arm, "the case is the
rted with its last knot of customers, an
age to carry off the wine, and not only 
dkerchief that was wound about her head.
_you_ in a corner, Mr. Darnay," said Bul
n of the afflicted Gabelle's letter from
ld she be! The brother distrusted and di
yed their sense of hearing.
hich happily it never was), the real wic
o think"--the curiously roughened forehe
 supplication but one I make to you, is,
 great crowd of people with its rush and
 does my father get all that iron rust f
He obeyed, in the old mechanically submi
nd women in Saint Antoine's bosom.
f, and free from any drawback of delicac
ng her teeth with her toothpick, coughed
he world; and that there was something l
ou."
ving Philosophers who were remodelling t
 she urged, clinging nearer to him, layi
's friend, but, at once in an auspicious
) you paid for it by sending a written e
on appeared by no means to please him, h
e for weakness. "Ha, ha!" she laughed, "
"
ts people had--that when the knife struc
"Thirty-five," said the mender of roads,
t kept him away; and drank to him affect
The hard uneven pavement is under us, th
Hailing his softened tone and manner, hi
Madame Defarge, still using her toothpic
lving her child and her father. Dwell up
The man slept on, indifferent to showers
 business-like to whisper it, even to yo
for him, nobody wondered to see only Mad
suction, that within a quarter of an hou
ateful love and blessing, and her overco
mise of last night, and drive away!"
Projector, the Farmer-General, the Docto
ly not behind any other learned professi
had been observed by the poets (in many 
arry the nephew of Monsieur the Marquis,
he question, Doctor Manette. Is there"--
which he himself had originated--that he
gilant watch on Mrs. Cruncher, and sulle
him by the collar, as if to restrain him
Thus, the rustling of an Angel's wings g
linked hand and arm, went with all the s
st head, had this crooked significance i
"I am not a shoemaker by trade? No, I wa
e they had the least relish for walking 
"Well! Truly it is against rule. But he 
cross the Channel?"
eisure had the stone faces, now, for lis
s usual white linen, and with his usual 
f there were an eternity of people, as w
uld deplore and pity."
e of the King and Queen.
o give me such a greeting, and show me n
ze from the shoemaker, "to let in a litt
t eccentric action of thought which had 
nless the prisoner's head was taken off.
"It is too late for that. I shall never 
agreeable, in a woman's society, than yo
have come back!" and sat listening. But,
face, quiet, intent upon him, with the l
o was pale, turned paler, and asked him 
He cannot easily touch his face, his arm
sight too, embracing her and thanking he
767. I write it at stolen intervals, und
"I know that your intentions are evil," 
ed, too--as you say."
elling of common wine and tobacco, where
us assisted the proceedings. The Preside
"About the usual time; it may be a quart
 of a young gentleman. He was plainly dr
ost other hours. Devoutly thankful to He
"Extermination is good doctrine, my wife
rier. Then he delivered to the escort, d
There was a murmur of confidence and app
unseen, a few of the people fell to danc
"Monseigneur, hear me! Monseigneur, hear
"Touch then." It was the turn of the men
ave a bit of meat, we ate it in fear, wi
softly laying her hand on his.
"Alexandre Manette, physician."
 foreign in its accent, but a very littl
es outside the gate. Looking about him w
e as she knotted the money. "There are o
sold a very thin wine at the best of tim
ound a patient in a high fever of the br
dle of the night.
wring them with a shriek of anguish.
d struck him a poisoned blow.
intently looking into the room to which 
t any, do he?"
n of this agreement shall not void the r
 is no harm at all done. I have not prop
n held out the pipe he was smoking, to e
 his excursion until nearly one o'clock.
 Spies!"
head strongly marked.
the figure on the Cross might have come 
"If that be so, do you see what, on the 
-sawyer, having closed his shop, was smo
"If you were to go before," said Miss Pr
ced them. Casting his eyes over Gabelle'
cell in the Bastille, near the close of 
 and hopping on at his side--perhaps tak
ards came, and perhaps they never came, 
he floor on one side of him; then simila
d homes.
 to lay him in his coffin."
am sure that he is capable of good thing
revious identification was so strict, th
r, and their hearts died within them.
well flop as meditate. You may as well g
t was lost; not a moment! This Foulon wa
 Mr. Carton!"
, ha, ha! He is so droll, that Samson. S
As a whirlpool of boiling waters has a c
why not, and said not a word more. But, 
The burst with which the carriage starte
e a heap of dust and ashes in the court,
d see if we are pursued!"
minished the strong resemblance he undou
nd, that, upon my life and soul, I have 
his lips for the first time--
 "than I, as a honest tradesman, wish to
, and emphatic entreaty, addressed to yo
r to write on. "Is this the emigrant Evr
g to receive him, with every refinement 
guest while he ate and drank, as from an
om the raging streets.
"Yes," answered Madame Defarge; "I have 
n--my wife!"
d shining life, and a great deal more to
fter these words were spoken, put the la
them, but that Darnay put out a hand and
this between whiles, and sat munching an
ions to his disadvantage. With this view
 fallen asleep, in his clothes, on the s
 dinner."
 as President had then informed Doctor M
e of them?"
g the dead out of their graves."
ys reluctant to turn his thoughts toward
"Yes," said Carton. "I am not old, but m
hich they both looked for Charles's ulti
! O, good citizens, if you would have so
be relied upon to arrive in good time, a
y carpet, supposed Miss Manette to be, f
ront rank, and I was always behind."
tured to himself that it might have been
n to send to Canada and North America. T
He handed in the names of two witnesses;
r young face of her who had crept along 
ch was only after heavy rains, and then 
sufficiently like each other to surprise
, could see his way out, being once in--
ards the window.
For, in these times, as the mender of ro
d so difficult to find. That's a card no
canonised. His shop was shut and he was 
ppy a beginning. Be comforted, and forgi
y long, a hollow face, and exceedingly b
"It will be dark soon after four. Let us
y from the door, the carriage had broken
 not dark.
t him.
You were one of the best patriots there.
ned him in that place that day, against 
der of roads, already at work on the hil
Mr. Cruncher thought it might be best.
ch produce as could be saved from the sa
e with many poor souls. Cheer up, and ha
 to; for one of the prisoners so summone
It was The Vengeance who, amidst the war
s. Her mind pursued them, looking for hi
.
 a troublesome creature into this world-
pression that I have another good card h
ful to go in at the door again; but, she
the wife and child must follow the husba
"I know all, I know all," said the last 
"Blest if I know that either," said Jerr
 steps and turned into Paris, "who marri
There was an immediate dispersal for the
ch a mystery to me; I can make no guess 
t time the Doctor felt, now, that his su
ese bonds were all portions of a gentlem
te: November 28, 2009 [This file last up
uryman, the Jacques Three of St. Antoine
n who told my old father that he might e
nted him at his counter, he laid the scr
 offer to you, sir," pursued Mr. Crunche
s called out loudly, "Down with the emig
"You see," said Doctor Manette, turning 
afforded to keep either myself or her fo
 noble idea of general public business, 
armingly represented. Monseigneur was ou
 the gate was held by a mixed guard of s
"Aha, a perfect Frenchman! Good night, E
"Ask who is arrived."
in uncertainty whether your father soon 
n; I think they would be."
 in the writing of Doctor Manette, to th
 to the composed and reserved expression
"Very pressing. To Monsieur heretofore t
at he made off again, and never stopped 
ss, business!"
The forlorn smile with which she said it
e and down your throat when they were op
r and the porkman painted up, only the l
rom her enfolding arms, "Take her, Charl
ne thousand seven hundred and eighty. It
at a little supper last night, where the
oors clanging and locking behind them, u
 have pitied herself; nor, if she had be
stand me, sir," said Mr. Lorry, quickly 
and character, united to the trustfulnes
re already taken in a net, what if it we
resee what that lady might pretend next;
wer, but always with brevity.
ers afterwards."
As Carton walked in, took his seat and a
iet as the night knew.
 had better be taken to her. But, before
tood stretching out her arms towards her
ship; civil officers without a notion of
other door on that floor, and the keeper
t at table.
These were among the echoes to which Luc
 Tom?"
the hands that had not ceased to clasp h
 air."
sclosure he was about to make, "because 
re they prolonged their usual orgies lat
with a vacant air. Shortly, this worn-ou
ound me.  You cannot answer this.       
ind which they slunk, and through which 
is a young lady's walking-shoe. It is in
g on the slab of wood before him, so com
in his arms. If one forlorn wanderer the
es of their whips; the valet walked by t
it. If any one of the three had had the 
tion of his discourse, "is wot I would r
he would infallibly go through with it u
e resumed; of the two or three customers
r all drawn up together singing a Libert
there was a roar. Another and another. R
could not be fewer than five hundred peo
ns into all the glutinous little glasses
reat gentleness and kindness for my fath
At length, a person better informed on t
his history, was on the coach-step, gett
f. The worst of the strife was over. He 
u would have so much compassion for us!"
th her, they went together; at other tim
h which it was strewn. The court was all
"One Hundred and Five, North Tower."
ck in her chair, she sat under his hand,
xtortion, debt, mortgage, oppression, hu
eace. I see the good old man, so long th
realisation of the name of mother--there
urried peep at Monsieur the Marquis petr
 I cry in my sleep where is he? I demand
an the elder; but I saw this. I also saw
he impending veil, the cheapest garment 
 more, and remaining to interpose his wo
er of two or three hurried lines in his 
house in the south country. Poverty part
proachful now than I can tell you. Even 
ve known what you meant, this time."
ld do to hear one another, even then: so
pulations. There is a great crowd bearin
s ruled for figures, with perpendicular 
self, then on that, as if he had lost th
that he had been used, in his bad time, 
ere said, for the popular revulsion had 
s I have told you, next to impossible. I
if it ever had been there--if it ever co
They hanged at Tyburn, in those days, so
"Ha!" said Miss Pross, "it doesn't need 
raculous presence.
alled Jacques. I met him--by accident--a
little shop, with two little counters, w
ever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm 
f the dead. Ghosts all! The ghost of bea
gs, with the stain upon those rags; men 
"Do you think I particularly like you?"
ad worked them down, was the mill that g
id the spy, firmly.
look towards the hospital procession of 
 it agin!"
"The chateau, and all the race?" inquire
 she stopped for the Judge to write it d
 and expense, was growing poor. Hence Mo
ossing terror and compassion that saw no
He looked like his illustration, as he r
em. We received the news of their safe a
o repeat her faltering words, when, rais
 a bright continuous flow, came whirling
 religiously circumwented into the worst
ular public business, Monseigneur had th
d them again, a feeble grove of dim wick
t. She had not been married many weeks, 
For, the rooms, though a beautiful scene
emerging from his state of lion's jackal
oss-examining this witness with no resul
and whom they strung up in their turn. B
sten to him!" Defarge stood, panting, ag
Then Mr. Stryver turned and burst out of
in their frenzied eyes;--eyes which any 
st the greatest reality among the person
en either out of the Court itself, or on
several headless and all cripples, were 
, as they had reddened them below the sn
ness is honest, Gabelle."
her the necessity of leaving Paris, with
y and mercy, or which they regarded as s
or's hand), but she was not permitted to
Its abiding place was in all things fitt
"It does not take a long time to strike 
or a place of captivity? Or do you mean 
n the wine was gone, and the places wher
buy the means of travelling to the seaco
"Will you answer me a single question?"
had dissociated himself from the phenome
's countenances displayed a guilty consc
t for my prospering there, I am sensible
again for the lighter streets.
y from their high perches--when the cry 
nd that, even if Miss Manette held me at
enly observant look at him, addressed hi
 love and reliance of infancy itself. I 
t rang his bell, and with warmth resumed
"I perceive your tongue is," returned ma
"D--n it all, sir!" said Stryver, starin
etting them know" something not mentione
to advise me?" said Mr. Lorry. "I quite 
, to frolicsome embraces, drinking of he
ead as D. I. C.; but, on being more care
 delicate finesse, he ran him through th
n the main one face, and every head was 
 in.
ost believe, that the circumstances like
"I will come back, to see you off."
r, squaring his elbows, "that it is your
"I speak for myself," answered Mr. Lorry
two of it, boastful of what he would do 
 nothing would file his spiky head down.
nce with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund 
male newly-born, and called La Guillotin
She could scarcely answer, "I trust in y
ife, down the hill, knee-high in dust, a
"You are a good man and a true friend," 
sted on the prisoner as a victim, becaus
e English customer paid for what he had 
ed "The Emigrant Evremonde."
n Britain, as in ancient Greece and Rome
ll of those dreadful carts, now very nig
st know of it until he was gone. Lucie s
assemblages of people, and turned out of
 in a whisper.
s replied to all the previous questions.
accountably released and light of heart,
g hair flapped back when the whirlings o
ure to fill a doorway that would bear co
opiate) was always with him, there was a
 He stopped there, and faced round.
"You are good enough to say so, as a fas
, but broke off abruptly at the doors. T
' your seventy-eight years would be seve
 one woman who had stood conspicuous, kn
ers in the City streets had some waifs o
s? Decidedly not; once received a kick o
d to avow to you, when you speak of it i
me, fell dead at the bottom. Their decea
alse conspirator who says that I denounc
m, and which they had taken either out o
hrugs and biting of lips, "It must burn.
l the world. He besought her--though he 
"We are alone at the top of a high house
ly rough dress, and probably with his us
and one dead, it had lopped the heads of
aid. Do you know me?"
oyal family. The few words that he caugh
s a gloomy prison, dark and filthy, and 
 poor. Hence Monseigneur had taken his s
Madame Defarge confer with these ministe
back of delicacy, had a pushing way of s
The Doctor looked at him for a moment--h
sieur Gabelle.
hem both too strongly. Again, as if by a
 The prisoner obeyed, and a guard of two
 up to clasp her arms round his neck; an
up a blind lane, of which the wall--ther
some unexplained check (not intelligible
In the roaring and raging of the conflag
ter fondly, dearly, disinterestedly, dev
t alone wouldn't make the subject pleasa
he did so, Solomon turned to the followe
 expression on the forehead, and then la
gnificent!" and began gnawing another fi
Mr. Jarvis Lorry and Miss Manette, emerg
ns means that no one owns a United State
o way through it, and the front windows 
ht hand parcelled out the herbs before h
irmness as he saw the Doctor disquieted.
Stryver. "Well! you have been present al
imself--as I once heard him publicly rel
 all free livers of his class, from the 
, became uneasy; went out on his house-t
hild, that her mother instinctively knee
so devotedly attached to him? Believe me
o hold counsel with himself. The result 
 did not know that the girl was dead. He
"Story!"
carried Miss Manette in his arms, who is
"'We were so robbed by that man who stan
On this certain fine Sunday, Mr. Lorry w
se near the happiness that I have known 
"I am sure of it."
re Defarge the vendor of wine had stood,
  Chapter IV     Congratulatory      Cha
d speak on."
 inquired Mr. Lorry, seeing that she mov
ance assisted in the conversation, like 
plan, my dear good Mr. Cruncher?"
"I see that child who lay upon her bosom
wept with sentiment. During the whole of
 wine-shop worked like a manful soldier,
and the mender of roads with his blue ca
d visibly passed over his frame; he laid
d he drank off a glassful--drank off ano
ildings, solitary farms, dye-works, tann
tile power. That, these lists could not 
United States.  Compliance requirements 
g a whole year, and had always been the 
ear that, miss?"
nner through the press, hammer in hand; 
and Monseigneur looked at it, in the per
raftily, and closely compressed, while h
nty-second of the month) in the year 175
indebted to you, sir. For the rest, it i
 done to assist that opportunity, and by
like each other in manner--standing side
hand, "near to the window of my establis
orays through the Bar, to inflict bodily
is paper that Doctor Manette has carried
 and distribution must comply with both 
age slid down hill, with a cinderous sme
pproach of darkness. It was almost dark 
A sumptuous man was the Farmer-General. 
 his wife looked steadfastly at one anot
http://www.gutenberg.org
ance of these sounds.
th a round turn in it, and on the faith 
n vain I represent that, before the sequ
--the nephew stopped a moment in his ans
ar, who was black and very mangy, gave q
how to do it well, not understanding how
 state now it was his turn.
. Quick!"
ning to night. Bankruptcy must inevitabl
 returning the wish, Carton rose too, wi
 he quitted the banking-house towards fo
tmost. Surely, ghosts all. Surely, the l
 the lowest national antipathies and fea
d bless you."
y.
ssary, for nothing could be flatter than
lame. Great rents and splits branched ou
his state they traversed without change,
"Thirty-seven."
. May it soon terminate happily! It woul
 people--"
te, a blade, a leaf, a root, a sprig, a 
uis, but smoothly, and with an unchanged
s time been looking at the ceiling of th
must say nothing of his intention now.
n to her as the sun. Confide in Madame D
r hundreds of years, and the last finish
is right;" an aphorism that would be as 
eeps along the streets. Be comforted! Bu
soever liveth and believeth in me, shall
 docile and attentive pupil before his c
f the thing were gone, my dear Manette, 
"What is his name?" said Mr. Lorry, with
"She has a fine head for it," croaked Ja
ut me in the wrong, young lady," said Mr
 say much. Who is she?"
htfully and dejectedly with his hand, th
 provide a little beer, none of your dec
lf without that. When the time comes, le
 inflict bodily and mental injuries of a
ter her as she walked away, were highly 
y!"
o have been finished long ago. Let it be
 a smile that gave his aquiline nose an 
h he had steeped it at intervals for the
requirements, we know of no prohibition 
r been a good eye to see with--had long 
ross's two hands in quite agonised entre
"_I_ don't think I do," said Carton. "I 
"Is there any particular and special rea
ed! If a girl, doll or no doll, swoons w
uld sustain it, down in the little villa
 opposite the buried man who had been du
Frantic acclamations were again raised. 
 We don't know what may happen."
 the mournful voice struck with a reproa
y are subtle and delicate, and difficult
In the howling universe of passion and c
g the knowledge that I possessed.
owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm tradem
 the citizen was his first witness. He a
ightful. The disposition of everything i
was not to be beheld in all the wide dom
lorn wretch," he implored them, with a d
shington on his mind) showed some surpri
 moss of many byways through woods.
ortunities to fix the problem.
jolt, and there was a loud cry from a nu
began: "When the gentleman came on board
wever; you don't know what it may come t
Few children were to be seen, and no dog
t yet spoken to her on the subject; the 
The great door clanged behind him, and M
gh for that to think of it a second time
, and put her hand to his lips. It was a
rious thoughts of things. And these here
 the dear child here, and our good Pross
voice," said Jerry. "I leave you to judg
nd the populace became one. At last, whe
our possession. If you paid a fee for ob
 profession to reason, the protest was f
his manner, and forgetting to speak.
ed and plunged.
The garret, built to be a depository for
nd nature of appointed things, and seeme
the same personage in authority showed s
e, and was near flood. Small tradesmen, 
to be told off by the score and the scor
"Persons' bodies, ain't it, father?" ask
ticular. Indeed, I begin to think we are
e had begun to overwhelm the city.
 he more than once misdoubted his mind b
ing friends. Now, you know me; you know 
hey came forward to raise the father and
een the prisoner before?"
e no remembrance of the process."
accustomed to carry the lists of his day
arge, wine-vendor of St. Antoine."
e theme as he rode. "It wouldn't do for 
or, and determined Jury, sat every day. 
, and, in the pauses when she stopped fo
o is the lady?"
hour or two from this."
at hand and it yielded, this was closed 
 monsieur?' said I.
 and gave the word "To the Barrier!" The
took him to the Doctor's door.
"But it is very strange--now, at least, 
ws opened, crazy doors were unbarred, an
he Juryman and The Vengeance a little ne
dress (hastily composed with unsteady ha
pare himself made him less able to bear 
it was, however; and the last drop of bl
But not for long. Releasing his arm, she
 of Paris, would be bad enough now; but,
ility of hers. As if Mr. Lorry had not k
ter.
Yet like a foreigner, I thought?"
 a genuine tenderness and delicacy which
e always made a bargain for it, by holdi
 worthy individual gentleman) was a nati
n this place is clear and shut, we read 
nd no customers coming in to help him to
 me in at this moment."
Darnay, unable to restrain himself any l
raint. Only last night, after you had le
As if a train of powder laid from the ou
 and became excited, when a funeral pass
brought with them, besides travelling cl
 flocked out of the Quarter so fast, and
ou?"
access to or distribute copies of a Proj
r, far better rest that I go to than I h
cques Three. The Vengeance, also, highly
ank, for instance?"
ll Her of this interview, or this arrang
g as all references to Project Gutenberg
ge's wine-shop, could easily have been f
th which I write with difficulty in scra
"It-can't-be," muttered Sydney Carton, r
 that he could not sit upon that Bench a
 bound so tight, his wooden shoes are la
rembling with eagerness to lay the spect
r with as much pride as she could possib
 as to feel that."
guess, you must ask me to dinner."
"That's right, that's right. Courage! Bu
ept in a tortuous, up-hill thoroughfare,
gures. But the face was in the main one 
eps that are coming by-and-bye into our 
nk of Tellson and Company--over to Engla
h bare arms, matted locks, and cadaverou
 with the aid of the blue cap without wh
Mr. Lorry, glancing at the House again, 
of sea and stones tumbling wildly about,
ere. He already asks himself, "Has he sa
?"
ure of smoking his afternoon pipe in the
ad become familiar. I have no remembranc
ed, with placidity.
 that there had long been a dread lurkin
 a word of what I now say. Besides that 
haps not) upon the joker's heart. The jo
 thinking that he referred to the brothe
him another gold coin, "and spend it as 
rdinary tight-fitting fashion, and to ha
 it passed out on the air, like the soul
imself by the other four, "in consequenc
ar, from which, occasionally, some parti
ng when he went to bed, was not long aft
less respectable. This was no passive be
hat private solicitude could rear itself
gh the eddying mist, and came to the sid
me to a crisis. And he was, therefore, a
 met (as I was warned I should) this com
 had to do with the collection of rent a
"I am not afraid to die, Citizen Evremon
bles seemed to ask him, with something o
ote upon the gates, for Eternal Sleep; i
delivered to the concourse whose murdero
 make, and exact the promise I am going 
scribed the note, Mr. Cruncher, after su
gned to an underground cell and total da
 Darnay. Released yesterday. Reaccused a
n the deck near the cabin steps, and I s
 room to which the door belonged, throug
Charles Darnay.
"Upon my soul, I am not sure that it was
e pilgrimages to the jug and basin, he r
Expected home.
ices, and the horses reared and plunged.
himself on the rascal-people before long
Charles, throughout his imprisonment, ha
oinage of humanity from whose ragged poc
a little hesitation, and in earnest tear
 confidence, had been the hope that I co
 received written confirmation of compli
ght as much at Court that sunny summer d
ry went on, with a laughing twinkle in h
o some eight or ten feet high--formed on
"I don't want dozens of people who are n
s, kill us; but we have a little pride l
ntil to-morrow morning's interest of gal
ne of them--the paper was read, as follo
aid within 60 days following each date o
aid Mr. Lorry. "Are you going out?"
 to dance. Not one of the whole number a
he were conscious of having debated the 
you and me. Come into the dark room here
ung lady better than I do; you were righ
reet, he dropped his daughter's hand and
ndship and warm attachment, all was done
ed one of the hands that knitted. It was
brother, coming booted into the room fro
nto this world--which does not go far to
n't you be afraid of that."
mation About Project Gutenberg-tm electr
clashing lock, swung the door slowly ope
te glance at his wife, so happy and busy
e of my dolorous and unhappy service.
warming about the prisoner, in anticipat
ammer in hand; "and you are a cursed ari
and went on writing.
lings purported to be pursued by day, bu
ances that surrounded me."
rone of England; there were a king with 
 of Mr. Lorry. She had installed herself
gh and hot. Stooping again to come out a
en suffered, and had come back to her, d
t in among them with the great keys and 
o spoke for a little while.
 gentleman had left London, but I think 
full of offence and stench, with other n
nd his other hand against the heart that
onate lady, and not happy in her marriag
s of hundreds of volunteers and donation
t above the fountain, they changed again
"He is greatly changed?"
He walked to and fro, with thoughts very
 sir.) Fetch barber to Concord. Stir abo
smoking, drinking, and sleeping, by a wa
e, or a hand, or even an eye was raised.
oming one day into our lives, if that be
hat I didn't cry over, last night after 
ng any heed of him whatever, "are the pa
irst minute of my contemplation of the p
cks with _that_ Army, or got undeserved 
ames, complaints, and prayers. Upon a co
!"
ave an escort--and must pay for it."
 had seen him projecting himself into So
e. Pass from here with an air of cheerfu
low voice.
There was a steaming mist in all the hol
--impatiently--as if in some sense of ha
that weary pacing to and fro had set it 
 to catch the tall joker writing up his 
dropped under-jaw, looked awe-stricken.
 places that are ill cared for!
id functionary. "You are an aristocrat, 
!"
nto the corner brilliantly in the earlie
went silently down.
ng his surprised spectacles upon him. "I
d," returned the uncle, sipping his coff
without you, I could have no hope. I wel
 disturbed dream of his own; for, did no
inappropriate conclusion.
s, one clumsy lamp was slung by a rope a
 human creature who came between us and 
answer for my fellow-Jurymen."
of the state of Mississippi and granted 
, and a consequent great stir and settli
re the notion of their children laying t
 hunted air of the people there was yet 
and protection to justify much national 
do you, under your new philosophy, graci
Monseigneur, one of the great lords in p
 throat, and showed his body to be withe
; the two outlandish customers approache
e instinct of the moment, seized her rou
hould make that choice. You talk of desp
"May you prosper!"
then? Other people have been similarly b
ly left her for a few minutes, to come a
probable that he had compeers in Fleet-s
nour, and good name.
ur in the day.
ppened, until it flashed upon his mind, 
n brought to the pointed comparison of h
."
r, the door grudgingly turned on its hin
tion of keenness, closeness, and dislike
did, to judge from his looks. He said no
hild, would you? Not you!" and throwing 
 hard, to loosen; by gradual efforts and
lt, a little too exactly. Having release
tocratic English government, is the spy 
"'Pray excuse me,' said I. 'Under the ci
the people. Otherwise, the governor woul
randa, are all comprehended in the one l
tely counting and counting; and the roar
n faces of prisoners, suddenly released 
 (though in stronger characters) on her 
-or so Darnay thought--of his softening 
Accordingly, Mr. Stryver inaugurated the
d some pleasure in the mere sound of his
at he would do to avenge himself on the 
 and half-crowns, would impart culinary 
work with a sack and a knife in it, terr
o himself and then aloud: "'Wait at Dove
As the grinning little man held out the 
rom the phenomenon of his not being appr
ing for _you_. Now think of it, Sydney."
his secret mind, and with such a man as 
ncher, after turning it over in his mind
."
 left off, of their own will.
ange answer, too," said he, at his hoars
"Now," said Mr. Lorry, gently laying his
t--not a syllable of it. Knitted, in her
 about in such habits, that a moderate s
n then beckoned to the young lady, and t
f passion and contention that seemed to 
 presence and trembled more.
His bloated gaoler, who wore spectacles 
tion, but not at all gently done; a very
ecrations, bravery without stint, boom s
"Very little to-night, but all he knows.
ility were trooping from France by every
out her, sweet in her ears, of the many 
an in attendance (wife of the man down-s
t (supernaturally deficient in originali
s room. The bench was turned towards the
eyes of Monsieur Defarge were studying h
stomed to pass from place to place and f
uccession, making a grand clearance amon
and cruel than the visages of the wildes
"What do I know!" said the postmaster, s
th the least possible delay, and the bur
ment. Noakes and Co.'s might, or Snooks 
g:
 feelings, and that all the relations I 
see," said Monsieur Defarge.
emigrant in the present acceptation by t
ngs, and a few yards of road; and the re
eir Court, a glittering multitude of lau
ection, and Jerry followed him, all eyes
 are so benumbed, and the gloom upon me 
f a great and powerful Fairy who had ope
 Do you call yourself a mother, and not 
right status of any work in any country 
 hold on by it until the bargain was con
surrounded the petitioner, and struck hi
e.
undertakers. The place had a soothing in
 It had been established voluntarily som
"And I am very happy to-night, dear fath
efore these two, because it was as well 
orry, rubbing his chin, and looking at h
niformity of parchment-yellow, that it w
o the front of the chateau.
 his absent manner of clasping his head 
eeply happy in the love that Heaven has 
ion of inconsistencies surrounding him.
 presence. As it advanced, the mender of
t anybody's cost, to a view of him--stoo
r Manette?"
ion to examine his master's table-drawer
rself picked out the pattern on her slee
is rapid movement, and rested on her whe
hers, that he never once thought of him.
f by the fire, scorched and shrivelled; 
g wheels of the time, had stunned the Do
 enemy of the Republic, Aristocrat, one 
aithful to all men in his healing office
again, when his eyes caught the skirt of
n to be that of one in whom the first ex
f action, with a small clear space about
s of many other French gentlemen and Fre
a tranquil bark in such an anchorage, an
He walked up hill in the mire by the sid
things."
to pieces everything before it. In the m
the five judges and the public prosecuto
  money paid for a work or a replacement
 clock, was to set a great mark of blood
 ceremony; but my opinion is you were," 
face to be remembered, and I remember fa
"I wish accommodation prepared for a you
g shot instantly as a highwayman.
a handsome fellow, and I thought I shoul
r, he rose up from his chair, took a key
r coming up, Joe."
orry. "I quite understand it to be a nic
g a lodging for a short term, in that Qu
lanced at the flower, it was with no inf
ood girls among us. I know it, and have 
selves were closing in around a structur
--this, or some other. Let me show you t
 Jacques. And see! Here is my knife," th
ut asking any question. Having ascertain
nt down on one knee to the child of his 
sant in themselves, and so expressive of
"Not of Beauvais?"
ee within these two hours, and am about 
n the arm.
--which last she only dared to do playfu
 put in your cradle."
Produced by Judith Boss
, read over to himself what he had writt
e mourning coach. A bear-leader, a popul
ou, though I wish you had never taken th
"The usual noises," Mr. Cruncher replied
e-tree, but he was only One.
 the deadly nature of her wrath--the lis
 associating place with sound; he never 
ht escape."
His arm trembled as it raised her, and s
y, Fraternity, or Death, that on the doo
hat lay before him, and had prepared eve
tm works.
farge said nothing when her lord came in
 true-hearted old gentleman never calcul
dying man.
 mended matters with a jargon about "the
ch strong emotion, and her face expresse
 for it! And if, when I shall tell you o
could not be restrained from making rath
 it, and could afford to pay for it; whe
wn chamber and cried. The Doctor was a p
 the only harvest ever known under the s
ht, when all is so black and solemn--"
 Jerry," the poor woman protested, with 
 riding-coat upon the chair--who must no
 an occasion that makes a man speculate 
. That, Mr. Lorry," said Mr. Cruncher, w
es and fine lords; and in jewels and sil
own--down on the steps of the Hotel de V
very strange"--said Defarge, rather plea
ted behind him.
ept your natural destiny. But you are lo
 my advice."
 foot upon his neck, and with her cruel 
e.
gainst my heart. O, see! Thank God for u
The Concord bed-chamber being always ass
the sights, and Mr. Lorry looked in vain
of autumn, and again in the snow and fro
, and lifting off his hat to give his sp
 existed, strikes to my heart as if I ha
hen recovered himself, fumbled with his 
 the Consolation and restoration you hav
ear to see her so?"
no. For, as I draw closer and closer to 
t his hands in his waistband again, and 
ation between it and Hilary.
 "Go on!"
 father was my father, those dead are my
ow, with great difficulty, and after man
"Pardon, Monsieur the Marquis!" said a r
o had retreated into a corner. The house
ess, it was the spring of hope, it was t
 clearance among Mr. Stryver's papers be
 were her natural enemies and her prey, 
 they only know what your breath tells t
Enough; you are English; that is another
making tea, with another fit of the jerk
e upon the darkness of their condition. 
 he _is_ your'n, ain't he? He's as thin 
help), is, they tell me, treason against
te visit http://pglaf.org
a manner contagious; more especially the
he door, and put her arm on his, in poin
nd the corner of the prison wall. The Ve
y wending East, West, North, and South, 
d as such and      sent to the Project G
ing his powers of listening to the utmos
nded that your aid should be invited. Yo
 a brooding look upon them that looked i
at his father's side along sunny and cro
 sight, albeit wild, and red, and grim, 
The spectators saw in the two figures, a
, got upon ledges, stood upon next to no
o the welcome shade of the cool old hall
 in his most considerate and most affect
cately saying "Halloa! here are three lu
s!" he would generally say at those time
l meet again, where the weary are at res
 was said by the intoxicated liar who co
e frosty air, at an hour's distance from
 of opinion on any less solid ground tha
ng in his arm-chair at a window. The ene
he had been taken in France, and his hea
r arm, Miss Pross. This is not a good ci
 moved nimbly.
ected information; a witness was called 
blic support and donations to carry out 
 under the fast-sailing clouds, nor was 
nything in this awful nightmare, they ha
, "who cares more to be agreeable, who t
rge, drily.
pectacle of prisoners passing along the 
s; and in the years so long after the br
of the prisoner's desk. He had not put t
ronted by the same man in authority, who
inking, Mr. Carton."
gerness, and loudly repeating the sugges
on the prisoner. Supposing him wrapped u
moved; these golden fetters rang like pr
at in the carriage. The moment I come to
, loves her mother broken-hearted, loves
which can be traced, under various disgu
aking in a vexed, abrupt voice (though i
t mightily close and oppressive. If he n
What did the two then, to persuade her h
ursting in his full-blown way along the 
hing. If my career were of that better k
The gaoler's wife, being provided with n
 a new action began in his waking though
Expected home.
expression.
nger and pain; also, that when that dang
"And so," said Mr. Lorry, who could not 
resented herself at the carriage-door.
nce of the grave.
eunited--the little preparations for his
nd reproach, to ferret out the nature of
s--and He was--before the slow years of 
hered together at the fountain in the da
"We have so asserted our station, both i
ment, shrieked, "I defy that bell!" wher
g; and in moving the scarf aside, the em
rk."
other Solomon should have been the bride
He recovered himself almost instantly. R
"I have saved him." It was not another o
atural hesitation.
"Is there not?"
in, the little bundle lying on the step,
cret. Tellson's shall not be imposed upo
hand at cards: "Sheep of the prisons, em
nterpose his word, when the thing that w
 always turning up," said Miss Pross. "W
hemselves before him was the true face o
orn, but very well kept, with large squa
now, though outwardly I shall be what yo
 who knew he was) being mentally hanged,
r. "How do you do? I hope you are well!"
dark hair. He was a dark man altogether,
im; then similarly, at the floor on the 
 sat in the shop behind the counter as h
and, with open mouth and dropped under-j
e more into solitude and loneliness: jin
erest in the ways of life and men. Some,
y for me in my usual seat. Keep me my us
o obstacle, tending to centres all over 
He had sunk in her arms, and his face dr
on that had been taken to account for hi
 counsel with its master in reference to
em rooted in a frizzled hangman, powdere
g imprisonment; that, the accused had re
Lorry shook his head; using that importa
 to remain clenched, and to cover his wo
s, that old clerks in distant corners lo
ed by a sudden extraordinary rising and 
ense terms from this work, or any files 
n prisoners were put to the bar before C
"Ten minutes, good, past eleven."
rry, you know what a brute I am; I wish 
Completing his resemblance to a man who 
we will remove him straight."
'clock when he awoke refreshed, and went
o."
uch in your mind, see you, madame." The 
ld have made them prosperous, had not se
ed to its destination amidst general rej
 his employers under a false name. That'
pe, but that dreadful woman seems to thr
g, which, to my surprise, seems to troub
been half so terrible as this dance. It 
"You are the fellow we want," said Defar
eet. An unnatural silence and desertion 
 it, even to you), by the strangest bear
re he was. Mr. Stryver was lying back on
efect you cause.
fortunate physician, native of Beauvais,
 moved. He had since seen her, in the Se
"Monseigneur, I am flattered to devote m
 was kind, and good, and useful to my fa
"But, however that may be," resumed the 
ject Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact th
in vain I represent that I have acted fo
 laid low in the streets, in any of the 
"Business seems bad?"
 the Comedy and the Grand Opera had far 
 away, and he and the Doctor were left t
wled the guard to himself. "He's hoarser
 Darnay, was accused by the public prose
ll to silence those cries, and asked the
heritance, the messenger on horseback ha
-show.
 what the tongue is, I suppose the man i
many privileges; a new philosophy has be
nd say a hundred and fifty, yet not be f
e.
tured emissary, after a full half-hour o
sk, had acquired a tigerish smear about 
odman and that Farmer, though they work 
ht. Courage! Business! You have business
o encompassed him, that if he had been t
ation makes no representations concernin
th his hand, the fine mask looked at him
VII. Monseigneur in Town
y changed again, and bore a cruel look o
ter walls stared blindly at the black ni
pon his shoulder, sobbing and crying, an
 and humbly thanked Heaven for having be
ages of solitude, might influence your d
il) within 30 days of receipt that s/he 
"Indeed, sir," pursued the nephew, "for 
 the stoppers to my lips. If I had wante
tion so engendered, would have polluted 
will hear anything else in this world."
. Republic One and Indivisible. Liberty,
 the full Project Gutenberg-tm      Lice
that Mr. Lorry felt it incumbent on him 
wo persons upon whom his look immediatel
ed upon him; "we are rather thoughtful t
y!"
"Rot the admiration of the whole Court! 
 when he got back, and it was easy to su
wasted,' and that might trouble her."
rnoon. He had diminished the distance ra
self one?"
 along, and that there was popular objec
nd confronting the speaker, and taking h
hoice on earth was stated in the prospec
"I stand aside, messieurs, by my heap of
t would be dangerous. Better not to ment
secret, was authoritative too. They had 
of paper. It bore the words in the Docto
Now, from the days when it was always su
 feet had come to meet that water.
. Keep me my usual chair. Go you there, 
of business, its contemporaries, had tak
member of the establishment.
and whose forces were yet unknown. The r
urried hand he produced and opened it, "
 in case he should observe any symptoms 
t, father?" asked the lively boy.
hoarse tones of the men and women in Sai
see) face too.
ed Carton, with a careless air; "I wish 
"I am not worth such feeling, Miss Manet
t terrible woman had knitted when he tal
"Without it, can I not save you, Mr. Car
 and one tall joker so besmirched, his h
ay with his tribe. It missed its mark, a
not under too great a strain?"
et within. There was a heap of old feath
ng surface was before), and resumed his 
: "Yah! Spies! Tst! Yaha! Spies!" with m
and lay like the dead.
, eight great towers, cannon, muskets, f
. "He's hoarser than suits me, is Jerry.
he main building, but the true-hearted o
ver, "and then look well upon the prison
ot half enough as it is. We ought to hav
"Where?"
en shoes are large and clumsy, and he is
try, that although they sat with doors a
e new calamity at home, Miss Pross threa
"'She is dead,' said I.
ls believe that it will last for ever. T
his lonely place.'
 untiring industry, he prospered.
"Where are the papers of this prisoner?"
closure, and could have seen the drops o
 voice so dear to you, that you well rem
s he did so, a small case in which the D
She came down from her bed, to look at h
fire. The eye could not detect one creat
 the Saint Antoine women. One of her sis
ure of that. A good opportunity for cons
ged the relationship. I pass to worse ne
The picture produced an immense sensatio
be interpreted to make the maximum discl
d, Jerry heard no more: but left them--s
"I see the lives for which I lay down my
to four rugged wells of flame. Great ren
und floor had, in a rather significant m
wed some surprise that they were not agr
ober, a receipt for the escorted, and re
colour. And as the frantic wielders of t
"Then I think I wouldn't, if I was you."
His cry was so like a cry of actual pain
 the old villain bound with ropes. That 
came gloomy again.
 great things before now--though never,"
"'She is my sister, Doctor. They have ha
their difficulties as they could.
lace yet.      I have obtained the favou
ice, Mr. Stryver?"
t.
 comes up. Crash!--And the knitting-wome
, Mr. Cruncher was as well known to Flee
nd byway, and their property was in cour
th his two fellow-patriots.
 I am, as you say, at a disadvantage. Th
l peopled by rags and nightcaps, and all
The court was all astir and a-buzz, when
mstance connected with Mr. Cruncher's do
other, I should have been the cause, and
"Your age, Evremonde?"
ts of the houses to the spectacle, that 
eople of France.
operations to look at him. He looked at 
 night, and will be heard, by us overhea
d the branches, striding on cautiously t
p and down together for a long time.
oman standing staring at each other; the
ith a handful of mud, picked up for the 
"Recall it."
"
 done: the shadows of the night were bro
"He was signalling with her when I saw h
t was the unknown future, and in its obs
Twice more in the darkness the bell at t
dney Carton were both here yesterday, an
ld her grandchildren when she was a hand
ns to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and
s to breathe and to cry, and then got up
her pretty charge. O the long, long nigh
isoner show these identical lists to Fre
derstanding how the wind would set when 
ad stripped her of everything she posses
in the churchyard, to confer and condole
rience that they could tear. There was a
"But what did I know? The deed was not t
"Any time mentioned?"
"The younger brother impatiently rejoine
ty stick upon it. Among the first of the
iefs from women's heads, which were sque
--then the history of your father would 
 a vexed laugh, "that this--ha, ha!--bea
urch of Saint Pancras, far off in the fi
ts glanced into it, I have had glimpses 
seldom reveals, and that there are deep 
umoured looking on the whole, but implac
ss, I don't approach the topic with you,
teness of his situation was referable to
rs is al-ways rusty!" muttered young Jer
tronically in lieu of a refund.  If the 
dows, knew Madame Defarge well, and acte
at it could have no reference to the mer
, as I kneeled on one knee over him; but
into the quiet of the Temple, opened the
te; but they were all the faces of a man
re sitting under the plane-tree, but he 
s village during a whole year.
ter to-morrow; probably not until two or
ng of a surface black, with no depth in 
 lodgings, like a dissipated cat. At las
 had made a bed for him on the deck near
 of the firewood guillotine. See here ag
ely failed, as is often the way with his
ttle passing touch of pride.
which is a large supposition; for what i
rn the leaves of this dear book that I l
as all the same; that, indeed, it was ra
 Marquis, whom I will still describe as 
 looked back, and even the emphatic lead
hough, to be sure, you know well enough 
ce for any particular state visit http:/
glazed, and closing up the middle in two
d when he did, on the pressing and writt
hat evening, 'Say, what is he like?' I m
not yet stated, and of representations, 
 to an Englishman; to one who, like hers
ressly for Monseigneur, should be so soo
leaves and grass, had been heavy to drag
d until the danger was over.
rd!"
tion of the droll national barber. He wa
 wife once more, "I won't be gone agin, 
 well guarded, and he got up to go among
He knew enough of the world to know that
o. It won't do for a respectable bank ge
he had been spirited away; if it had not
amp could throw, or any object in the ro
thick mud, floundering and stumbling bet
, contemptuously. "The other world?"
ed and fifty particular friends, stood w
g for his portrait, Mr. Lorry dropped of
 Pross, Defarge, is an English lady, and
de the best of it. In this, his prosperi
ie frightened and bewildered in the door
oul and his poor reduced body together. 
The jackal removed the towels from his h
hat he heard what was said, and that he 
her good card here, not yet enumerated. 
p, that hot still night. Rustling about 
e freely shared with anyone.  For thirty
that they had shifted and struggled unti
"I could not believe it to be you. I can
d then the hand dropped to his work, and
es, and observed him at intervals from t
be disappointed. Now, pray say no more a
te side of the road, and are on the hill
hat you will support the Project Gutenbe
They left her at the corner of the stree
 sawn into boards, to make a certain mov
orm some words, though no sound proceede
or even of last year, or of the year bef
th an increasing rabble surrounding the 
much--I could retain no place in it agai
cement of the name make you uncomfortabl
"My dear, there is an upper window in th
ay so, as a fashion of speech; but, I do
will soon be far from here, please God! 
 functionary and three armed patriots in
 agonised entreaty clasping his, decided
f his avocations, she arranged the littl
of her opinion, Miss Pross resorted to t
eipt that s/he      does not agree to th
 suddenly startled, made angry, and petr
ith their intangible impurities; the two
 me. I had the strongest assurances that
as a tempter and an eavesdropper among h
; but I was conscious that there might b
e fountain below, and sent word to the s
e waited out the day, seven days a week.
"Porter wanted!"
ole breath. Thus Miss Pross, who had nev
d he have lost in his fascination. The f
Miss Pross to scream; speaking in a vexe
he said, wrathfully, to the turnkey. "Lo
to this. No more can I turn the leaves o
ing the property of emigrants."
Manette may stand him in as good stead t
ndled eyes, the resolute face, the calm 
rs and donations from people in all walk
e!"
"So soon?"
"Yes."
"Was it dreaded by him?" Mr. Lorry ventu
ted in her shrill notes, "in France."
r follies often before, and have repente
he hill. The horses stopped to breathe a
 knew that he was free, were questions w
m looking down at this handsome boy whos
miseration as Charles Darnay crossed the
 letter. I sealed my letter, and, not tr
reen leaf, every blade of grass and blad
he coarsest of meagre loaves. The people
nd you--_are_ collected. That's good!" (
and child, and not in opposition to 'em.
eat apparent calmness and repose of spir
 so still when he had very gently raised
me awake, some dirty with murder and som
Charles Darnay, alone in a cell, had sus
like to be a Resurrection-Man when I'm q
ly moved to me.
tom of hard driving endangered and maime
e interest, according to their several a
aised finger--and they all added in word
usand seven hundred and seventy-five. En
 half, five paces by four and a half, fi
 shook her head upon the pillow, and kep
The leprosy of unreality disfigured ever
nay had begun to make, that he would go 
t of the work.
 is in pursuit of us; but, so far, we ar
 the window and partly opened the blind,
pane of glass. The general scarcity of e
eathern strap, which did what lay in it 
ith an unseen assailant, was not to be b
eg the favour of his waiting for me here
in mind that wot I said just now, I up a
ught, had passed some ten minutes in tor
ited for no man, the rats were sleeping 
"A most earnest, pressing, and emphatic 
Hush! Yes."
art, towards you, all the love and relia
 Yes, sir. That way, sir, if you please.
 from this cause before her little child
stained red, the footsteps raging in Sai
n many a village like it. For scores of 
nd filthy, and with a horrible smell of 
 themselves the upper rooms formerly bel
e quickly because it was his own right n
"Yes, sir, if the weather holds and the 
 various ways of gaining a livelihood. S
 my father. O my dear, my dear, will you
in good clothes should be going to priso
 of execution, and end. The ridges throw
uate, and not to weaken, the ties betwee
back to consciousness on a field of slai
w good citizens, if any. So powerful is 
scried other faces within, bending over 
hink it was contrived, in case of the wo
ative positions of himself and Lucie wer
iss Manette to France?"
uick noise and movement of the court's e
sed, panting, bleeding, yet always entre
ropped his cleaner hand (perhaps acciden
r, to make her willing?'
d self-communing. When this expression w
nent connections abroad.
ier and none the soberer for so much app
him be at peace."
he idea of lighting up, had darted into 
when it was done, some diamonds, very br
e the student's way unusually pleasant a
istracted state of the city. But, the sa
leaming in above those shutters and betw
er carriages came whirling by in quick s
urs, when you see your own bright beauty
, and the mail, were all so heavy, that 
as I smite it now, and I tell him, 'Defa
me refreshment on the road, and required
"I understand how to put _you_ in a corn
. My meaning is that I am a man," said S
ed away.
esignedly away. When it was not too wet 
e-shop door, they are not easily purifie
is favourite description of himself as "
 Cruncher, hesitating and shaking his he
Madame Defarge knitted steadily, but the
 Paris streets in mid-July, one thousand
his last night.--What did I say just now
there he shook his head, and stopped.
"We will set him above their mercies ver
 In the church and at the Cross, a kneel
With his straw in his mouth, Mr. Crunche
"It comes surely," said Carton.
 his rooms to the remote region of the C
Mr. Carton's manner was so careless as t
ess added its own hush to the hushing du
The keeper of the wine-shop stopped to s
 most admirable and marvellous of witnes
restlessness, to her, and she finds it b
 time, and all luxuries befitting the st
l habit and past the middle term of life
g; but, is it yet?"
 one and indivisible of Liberty, Equalit
 connection, ever paid in thrice the tim
, and was put together again when the oc
 have no fear for me. Take me in at the 
smiling face, and he conveyed an air of 
 there are not already--banishing all em
 instalment of taxes, and no rent at all
een dragged out by the crowd and murdere
e and his devouring hunger far away.
 his arm about her.
 the Christian name was completed at the
"No, no, no," said the uncle, pleasantly
 I will have nothing to say to any of th
olitics, Frustrate their knavish tricks,
. But, it was the old scared lost look t
 with him. I know very well that you can
 agreement before downloading, copying, 
unting dropping heads.
y of Beauvais,' said the other; 'the you
he would get them, and went, knitting, o
on, Charles Darnay and Lucie Manette wer
et, and put it on the table.
ur meaning, Mr. Lorry?" demanded Stryver
 be loosed.
 chance of any one of its savage details
g, and come to your chambers afterwards.
the golden giant in the hall was not mor
.
 and softening to behold in action; also
and shut off from the street by a high w
d."
 the impenitently wicked sort, in story,
hat I should go across salt water, do yo
, as their capricious judgment or fancy 
re gone raving mad arose among them. The
not immediately connected with Monseigne
y in the outer rooms, much prostrated be
both highly commended it. Defarge, a wea
"Of course."
ons, and when they should have violently
o tamper with him no more. He had a wild
o him, and what were capable of restorat
eople into trouble, and that he was ther
open air, was a large grindstone: a roug
n, of my name--Jacques is my name--to wh
arge invisible oyster out of his saucer.
rton leaned against a window. The curtai
e strong-rooms underground, at Tellson's
Defarge was produced, when the court was
, simultaneously with his coming against
ing a brawny hand upon his chest, and se
s usual manner, there was a true feeling
Citizen Evremonde, but I have done nothi
, here and now, is, that I pray to you t
y is also defective, you may demand a re
 I have noted in myself that my reason w
look back upon, sir?" said Carton, wistf
s upon that man. Who moved uneasily on h
ot back to the drawing-room and had sat 
 had been torn up, to arm the more belli
dents as yourself, who, moreover, has th
, Carton was so sensible of a rising des
1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenbe
e, and a forest of naked arms struggled 
is head again.
 little glasses near madame, fell dead a
Mr. Lorry ventured to ask.
Having thus given his parent God speed, 
aid the spy, "and let us be fair. To sho
e man sat down on the heap of stones.
t. That was the manner of our beginning 
efarge being sensitive to cold, was wrap
 their longing arms; and shouldering its
curiosity at the prisoner.
"In a word," said Madame Defarge, coming
s with no result, except that he had nev
e in a worldly point of view--it is hard
 and road, and shaming few good citizens
 the nephew, "I believe it to be at once
 Charles," Mr. Lorry glanced at the dist
rown away, and how much he every day kep
 I kiss her by you. I say farewell to he
 the night did not indicate; but they we
e looked in at him through the chinks in
t was always in that individuality, and 
ch phrases as "Ah! yes! You're religious
the door, who could not have laid a piec
ming in, to see anything; and long habit
h of ours, every thought and act, every 
 years old, to grow to be blooming, beau
 he is not there; let him miss his old c
in his face; a struggle with that occasi
 again a prisoner?"
f mother--there was no such thing known 
 result of that conference.
andoned the estates when he inherited th
ill dark. I should like to know how you 
an he had spoken with.
nd to marry."
as not enchanted (though he said he was)
d turned her hand in one of the ropes wi
en the fifty-two heads were to fall. And
no, nor yet his quarter--a banking away 
 Power and Plenty, Freedom and Life. So 
 deeds, it is questionable whether of th
, I won't trust your fore-legs till I ge
ay?"
the joker's dress, such as it was--quite
tranger. "Stay long enough, and I shall 
is punch and looked at his complacent fr
tically worked it out and supervised it,
with mud, from the hoofs of the horse to
Saint Antoine that blood and hurry had n
ley itself.
d gloomily shook his head.
"You were, just now; I saw you do it, an
, such profligates?"
nged them, until the sun was low in the 
ly, and, one would have said, to very po
ayed and countermined and religiously ci
intelligence--or discovery--"
"Miss Manette, if the prisoner does not 
requiring the hollow of a hand before it
it would be a weakness in the government
"I am thankful!" repeated the Doctor, be
 vacantly.
nking-table, while the jackal sat at his
s given to the stranger, as being himsel
rison. My Lord being prayed to bid my le
 of a prison in France here."
"No. It has been kept from her, and I ho
one stone face wanting; the stone face f
 there is no friendship in them, no part
rushed on.
ch of the Englishman in you, though I wi
 Lorry, "that I was very unhandsomely de
 family name. She faintly shook her head
The blue-flies buzzed again, and Mr. Att
ry, rather halting in his reassuring wor
e; but, when he saw it, and saw his hono
 out of France. Say, shall I hire a carr
cquainted with it could have believed in
nted, and Madame Defarge knew enough of 
han hate, clasped her tight, and even li
g was taken off.
oger Cly in its own way, and highly to i
not to propitiate--when a grizzled mende
lt to be a new one. She laid down her kn
ut sprung over a railing and a table, an
phur; finally, that he will be torn limb
"And indeed, sir," pursued Mr. Lorry, no
 axe had dropped.
n case of the worst, is a friend in the 
 afterwards leaned against the door-post
 hand before it, which is seldom, if eve
cene of shadows presented, was heightene
serve a House, are not our own masters. 
ng that she moved as they moved.
ame tortured forms. Sow the same seed of
 it would be of no importance. I make th
e fast for the night, Monsieur the Marqu
ly discussed, the lion put his hands in 
 known the pains of, by rearing her in t
ith these cries, numbers of the women, l
, and put my paper in its hiding-place.
"Have you recognised him, monsieur?" ask
y as I bid you; for more depends upon it
m to these gloomy shades!
 a true feeling and respect both in his 
the name of Lucie! Wishing you were goin
y, may be condemned tomorrow. Now, the s
inish it. It was the last day of the yea
you content?"
e cool old hall, that Mr. Lorry observed
ntleman with his hands in his pockets, w
fter an absence."
ho had tossed the paper over, "and then 
t I know that he will presently be summo
es, and ploughed into every furrow of ag
hee it is always advancing. Look around 
t that you could see beyond it into a gl
eople, from a congress of British subjec
r, rolling his eye over the landscape. "
all.
 hail-clouds, rolling away, revealed bri
was stormy, and the passage long and rou
d, under the impression--which he himsel
ght, at the time, that you sympathised w
some other heap of poor grass. Monseigne
"I knew," said Defarge, looking down at 
"Does everybody here recall old Foulon, 
gown on, and he said, squaring himself a
It had its poor people too. All its peop
"I understand the feeling!" exclaimed Ca
tween the little grated window and the d
ure. "Sydney, I rather despair of making
mission, what cringing and fawning, what
ustify any such offender's being carried
 who moved across the room, "that you ar
-"
e, as on you. Tell me, how does this rel
imself into two.
With a weary sound that was not a sigh, 
ating a difference of opinion was the li
out to the place of trial.
ordinary questions. Here is a fellow, wh
e well-known good physician rent the hal
these occurrences much out of the common
self through any covering of the body, s
s shone in the sun. A tremendous roar ar
eing him once more to-morrow!"
cie Manette were happily married.
ote the latest news out in a line or so 
a man wouldn't get much by it, even if i
 and laying his hand on hers, "command y
ys to suffer less, she may live a long t
1.D.  The copyright laws of the place wh
eated on a form after taking that refect
ut, a smouldering fire that burnt in the
e, who was kneeling to look on and hear.
 all aristocrats! Down, Evremonde!"
ideration for others who were near and d
rying his musket very recklessly, Charle
 and might be dangerous, to explain in t
"O, sir, at another time you shall know 
 sitting at their doors, shredding spare
reasing his face with his two thumbs, fr
ospered.
 He never came there heated with wine. A
ack, with his torn gown half off him, hi
ng for copies of this eBook, complying w
A large cask of wine had been dropped an
e;'" Carton's hand was again watchfully 
e together during this brief discourse, 
e other a mender of roads in a blue cap.
; I told you it was a foolish fancy, but
000) are particularly important to maint
ants slept soundly, and were fed and fre
depends upon it than you can think, or I
e curtains of the bed where the last Mar
He drew the bottle near, poured out anot
"It is so," assented Defarge.
, he threw a boot at the woman as a thir
e quietly loyal and good will always be.
r it."
ents, and in her girdle were a pistol an
"The worst."
ving been for eighteen years a secret an
ple, opened the letter, and read it. The
er, now! He had accomplished the task he
y had now to summon their favourite, spe
Very ill at ease with himself, and with 
 am satisfied on my own account. And I a
V. The Wood-Sawyer
ut not straight, having a peculiar incli
 back one of the little flaming logs, wh
 and approached his second and last poin
aw."
topped till he got to the fountain.
ood in dread of him, and in dread of her
y of tyrants, one of a race proscribed, 
Mr. Stryver then called his few witnesse
s character of "the Captain," gallantly 
 responsibility thereof not lying on his
The night wore out, and, as he stood upo
lace the previous one--the old editions 
it is a crumbling tower of waste, misman
ing recognised and challenged by his fel
pprehension.
et shall he live: and whosoever liveth a
 his determination to tell all his wrong
. What the two drank together, between H
pressions of impatience were taken up, w
 how scarce you mayn't make the wittles 
n does) at money from morning to night. 
held his honoured parent in view. The ho
uffer, in themselves and in their childr
t the good physician of the Republic wou
functionary who worked it; but, so armed
ee for access to, viewing, displaying, p
self, that day, as the keeper of a wine-
I doubt if they durst spare him after th
eavy lumbering of wheels within hearing.
he staircase into a garret--formerly the
hat had been upon it when it turned towa
ment as he seated himself near her table
"I hope so."
aired, or his faculties disordered, the 
ng remain unimpaired, but I solemnly dec
n, bursting out of the bed of wigs, like
siness relations, but confidential. I wa
ad its band of citizen-patriots, with th
to express itself in his sinister face; 
 a twitching in the head and body, and r
at you say, that for the moment I lose s
 pursuing her way along the streets, cam
out continuous and accumulating resistan
proof against slight surprises (if he ev
lved merely to keep himself always befor
 the living prisoners, and had pleaded h
 lost its hold of them, and they again s
Sydney Carton paused in the street, not 
eeze himself into court.
he heavy lands adjacent to Paris, there 
ved that they both looked of about my ow
fund of the money (if any) you paid for 
im now, said to one another they would h
ome, tramp, tramp! But when they advance
t nine days, he knew that he must face i
That, hereupon he had ascertained, throu
ow well enough by this time that your an
was something left in me at this time wh
 get into the throat of Monseigneur, wit
people. Mr. Carton had lounged in, but h
ys, "come with me, emigrant."
 all events you may be sure that I shall
!"
y along the narrow streets and crossed t
or them, no chance of them. I pass my wh
spread.
tements concerning tax treatment of dona
on to the authority of the Tribunal woul
omply with it--take off those boots you 
be legibly inscribed in letters of a cer
ject Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundati
d by him, and died away. As its silent t
daughter sat down together.
to be a dress day, everybody there would
g the object that took me away. It carri
"What do you mean?"
s to follow the coach, even as Madame De
, place him yourself in the carriage, sh
 wos so, which I still don't say it is (
ves. The people rudely pictured as drink
m be! He will be judged at Paris."
man, so long their friend, in ten years'
"It is true," said Defarge, who was knee
to pay for it. He knew beforehand what t
 medium, a computer virus, or computer c
ked the Marquis in the face. It was not 
go."
ldiers to be left on guard!" The swingin
will I do it, never no more!"
d reliance, appealed to them both too st
 with the full terms of this agreement. 
cloud of caring for nothing, which overs
scomfited too: "good day!"
Miss Pross. "Far rather would I never se
hope of return until he should have been
ange places with him, and would you have
crees yet?"
Tellson's Bank by Temple Bar was an old-
l had described it to be--perhaps, if it
l we always be able to decipher it--or, 
his back, with his teeth set, his right 
 from herself, and that he had been as i
, the room or rooms within every door th
 windows, and slender fires were made in
"I don't gainsay it. What has roughened 
e group was broken up. The English custo
n sleep, inspired the mender of roads wi
ne to things, was a polite example of lu
 acted for an emigrant, and where is tha
"How I admire the gallantry of your yout
ry or watchtower. According to the immem
n aid of the kind deception to be practi
nd handsomely disdainful faces of both s
l of the fact.
 was taken off. That head Mr. Attorney-G
censed works that can be freely distribu
he public prosecutor as an emigrant, who
 growing louder as we ascended the stair
th a laugh. After sipping his cognac to 
d get on with these things exceedingly w
se here and a smile there, a whisper on 
Her father sat silent, with his face ben
a basket.
ly find it for myself. I suppose sense i
"Is that all, sir?"
ith a grey head, who had a lighted torch
 never taken that cold in your voice," s
cheerfulness out of them. Fathers and mo
Doctor gave him his hand.
"He was."
ame. Can you follow me, Lucie? Hardly, I
sident were content to receive them.
ve predicated that she did not often mak
ve known you in your home."
that a famished traveller, wearied out b
 indignation, which he afterwards turned
 next object that Young Jerry saw, was t
"Come!" said the chief, at length taking
gerated it.
What do you say now?"
ere quit of them, new occupants were app
ed millions in France, and of the misuse
. "Pray sit down."
In the sad moonlight, she clasped him by
hly in earnest at this dreadful time. No
them that he was not yet proof against s
No man ever really loved a woman, lost h
uld do--beyond this: that it would proba
ments, a man stood in his presence, who,
 to come at it in this chance manner--"i
er. But, before you go, will you, for a 
e added:
th interest; little more."
ster," said Mr. Cruncher, with a tacitur
ith the other business of Tellson's Hous
risoners who were saved, had astounded h
is blunderbuss in his arm-chest, and, ha
tated, her father supplied the rest.
m exhaustion; none the less because he k
Encamped at a quarter before nine, in go
nd be ill and poor; you really ought to 
proof of his safety, immediately after h
 over. Then, all the good you bring to h
ies and politenesses likely to pass betw
The servant who spoke, had thrown the bl
y because I believe there is contaminati
 the weapons aside like water, carried h
 turned so often that its purchase crumb
or something--that was neither food nor 
fusion of blood in his own head, added t
 no other, for I bear it in no other."
all yieldings of the earth that could be
s face is bleeding and covered with dust
ll, several dark and dirty streets--much
o affect not to know that your self-deni
dy and spirit, nothing in that way was l
. There it is. Oh, look at it, look at i
ed her husband. "Gentlemen--my wife!"
to Him."
 Ogre that he was, he spoke like an epic
"On my way yonder," said Madame Defarge,
"I never saw you do it yet," muttered Ca
was here diverted to the door-keeper, wh
it, and also, when it gathered together 
 He stood for an instant with the finger
 as a matter of precaution and form, to 
n them and the spectacle, and making a b
e unfinished shoes. Madame Defarge immed
r watch and ward, and retired himself. T
y with me, though he had business relati
r informed on the merits of the case, tu
ere. Only one soul was to be seen, and t
warm to his heart in its long bright ray
rough it, I have known myself to be quit
me forth for personal conference. Whereu
 for breakfast, and the lumbering deal t
"Alone! God help him, who should be with
bly gave him the toothache. He broke the
This had been the third morning in succe
It happened, at length, that he had occa
nd firm at his nostrils, and Carton's le
 for another person. The prisoner's coun
le picture of a happy father's face look
etriment to his reputation as a perfect 
iles of the little group when it was don
 country, yielding nothing but desolatio
apping him on the back when it was over,
dred and seventy-five. Spiritual revelat
 tradesman met with! Young Jerry, dress 
e afterwards, when he sat watching them 
"Good day, citizeness."
en, and the soil that bore them--all wor
the tools, shoes, and leather, were buri
ilities left behind them in the fine wor
of the occasion?"
d drooped gently on one side, and all he
 round the waist, and clung to her with 
t it means; I have no time to tell you. 
ssing vehicle to keep the cold and wet f
 made by the falling wounded. Flashing w
always is for all countries similarly fa
deeper dye, they carried him thus into t
ed fast under the shadow of the axe; and
ar occasion. He tried to prepare himself
 old."
e thus brought into comparison. My Lord 
 was for the large pill he had to swallo
d the man who had caused Miss Pross to s
, under the decree which banished all em
 Argued with the jury on substantial wor
ng his left hand from the back of the ch
"I tell you once for all, there is no su
es of empty-headed girls; you must not e
rry, begged to ask him a few questions. 
" said Carton, "I am bound to avow to yo
eavy breathing of the insensible travell
 You confuse me, and how can I transact 
"I hope you care to be recalled to life?
e.
 his son to hold her in conversation als
"Gabelle. And what is the message to the
"But I do, and you must take my word for
ran dry; the extinguisher tops of the to
t, and he had closed both again, and he 
To Mr. Lorry, he commended them all, and
 the reflection on the wall to elongate,
t is--wot I would humbly offer to you, s
 years, but we have had good girls among
"Monseigneur, it is true."
ood of Monseigneur, who, his own wife in
the evening air, as if he came attended 
rn, and neither of the two spoke for a l
. He had known the last witness seven or
nd the clouds sailing on high above him.
The postmaster interposed himself betwee
here were many like her--such as the wor
, and put to the bar.
"The pleasure of conversing with you, Mo
ly see), though still very pale, was cal
 into another sect, which mended matters
ic shrieks, and flinging her arms about 
efarge, inquisitively raising her dark e
ptive, and assisted him to his feet.
ot until two or three days afterwards; m
should know it to be a baseness. If I ha
, look out, and see if we are pursued.
Each spoke in her own language; neither 
ip of fresh water, and asked for another
n of the old rag she wound about her hea
h him always, and very lenient on his fa
emorials of prisoners of old time, long 
e all awake! * * * * He made shoes, he m
ibution of Project Gutenberg-tm electron
when we were fellow-students in the Stud
en gone for ever, eleven gone for ever, 
XV. The Footsteps Die Out For Ever
t being stopped. By good fortune, too, s
-and I hear him tell the child my story,
"Doctor Manette, I knew she was from hom
m with such a fatal darkness, was very r
e and poetical spirit--"
ng," said Miss Pross.
ined in that Hall of Blood until the dan
patriot who could exercise a privilege t
 coming against the wall.)
he, "and I must have it. Where is it?"
 hill. Gradually, it subsided to a foot 
and tremble: "that it will seem long to 
n her head-dress, before she looked at t
 in tears, 'I would do all I can to make
ir--who must not be seen? From whom newl
ining. But, as there were not only carri
admiration, true homage, and deep love, 
ther means of getting at it. It is the c
n his touch, that Mr. Lorry, who had nev
 her round to the December month, wherei
e, than any wretch who creeps along the 
s selection from these with the least po
de him look twice as big as he was, and 
and special reason for your being unable
sman      Chapter XV     Knitting      C
 accumulated by Monseigneur. Exquisite g
At length the jackal had got together a 
e how that quarrel had arisen, and he sa
top.
ess request to Charles Darnay, that the 
rticular animosity.
 you ask it."
oupled with the documents of their disco
he Creator, never reverses his transform
"But, although you are the youngest man 
th ropes. That was well done to tie a bu
piercing shrieks, and repeated the words
"Come!" said Defarge. "Here is monsieur,
times gain access at three in the aftern
net, or were being forwarded to his dest
"Is well," said the Doctor, as he stoppe
ling. In the shadow of bank and wall the
 buildings marked deserted homes.
re close behind him, and about to follow
!" And to her, with a shrill thirsty cry
ing Paper at La Force.
n, a little village at the bottom of the
dignant refugee; and This, That, and The
 drums. Soldiers have marched into the p
h with this, that you waste the precious
ly, very incommodious. It was an old-fas
ach roof.
"Do _you_ ask, Citizen Doctor?"
o be the only safe advance, he at first 
 a very frugal kind: not only because th
Soho horizon. So, he pushed open the doo
s among us!"
y other and far dearer self. If she shou
rom making rather an ostentatious parade
rth Tower."
resence of pain under an opiate) was alw
tone faces crimsoned. The carol of the b
entences of grateful friendship and warm
represented to have been addressed to he
, abandoned his property to the vilest s
o know then that his mind is walking up 
 and words of his paper, with a slow for
"Better to be a rational creature," he a
work in her hand was accustomed to pass 
r hair was torn, and her dress (hastily 
string, awakening the echoes, as an unru
ice; "I too, my dear, will stop at nothi
flaxen wig at the ears, "It is very diff
nce of a man who knew how slight a thing
"What is the matter?" asked the passenge
y's way--the way of the love of a woman.
ch was a desert of heaps of sea and ston
he could hardly have gone along the stre
ion," said Miss Pross, "that I didn't cr
ar to the bench on which he sat. There w
day passed quickly. Early in the evening
" said Sydney Carton.
had read but a page. It was appointed th
 from a shower of hail.
second floor--a blue chamber, to which n
ly; and heads nodded at one another, bef
radesman, and not to occupy your female 
 of the Suspected, which struck away all
if he had shaken the dust from his feet,
ong the lookers-on there was the same ex
"_Do_ dozens come for that purpose?"
under the circumstances, but because the
ved to state in my letter. I had no appr
ether, as hazard had brought them togeth
ch could be got up the hill. Whenever th
 in this lost man, that her husband coul
l desire.
a means towards that end, and bit the fe
the terms of this license and intellectu
dertaking air to that part of the proces
s these ruffians turned and turned, thei
my boy, and while I clean my boots keep 
is. But it has lasted a long time, and i
t distinction.
d Mr. Lorry, not minding him, "I really 
impatient to ride away. I had heard them
do it for weeks; I might (mistaken or no
"As to me, the greatest desire I have, i
enunciation will certainly not take plac
editative enjoyment of his words, "has g
were dilated and wild, and she constantl
f experiments, to many things. Now, does
 took up her knitting. The visitor watch
ness which his situation engendered came
pon. Yet, a doubt lurks in my mind, Miss
d men, and highway robberies, took place
nd. Will you let me believe, when I reca
nt as they are to French credit, avoid a
 smoky lights; of the people, pipe in mo
 the echoes out to be the echoes of all 
 he did finally lay himself down, he fel
 of or providing access to or distributi
spectin' flopping has undergone a change
 no old business, no old servant, no old
t it had been the infallible resource an
 imprisoned, Monsieur heretofore the Mar
e tax deductible to the full extent perm
as if all the breath in France had been 
seigneur. Projectors who had discovered 
ll!"
eath of his child; they say that a petit
emember how strong we are in our happine
reated. The transition to the sport of w
 Mr. Lorry took in the hope of his comin
 opened it, and exclaimed, "Thank _God!_
s of times. A little wood-sawyer, having
r did he wear anything more on his head 
treated her, for her father's sake, neve
ed without saying a word, however, and w
--that it still rolled in like muffled d
Madame Defarge and monsieur her husband 
th like a man who had done with it.
 to be artful in his precautions. That, 
the way between Soho and Clerkenwell, an
lothes, while travelling, he had seen si
ed with her radiant hair, which warmed a
d a soothing influence on him. He procur
 the rest and silence into which the sto
"The road is clear, my dearest. So far, 
to struggle and to strike; Miss Pross, w
"Show me!" said the traveller then, movi
 possibility, even at a remote distance 
 getting out, but still holds it as he p
 bench.
ere taken up, with marvellous quickness,
 fore-most of just judges and honoured m
 of languishing into the parish like str
 of his hair, and a certain indescribabl
 hair in the light of the fire, "then we
"Among us!" from the universal throat ag
reclaimed me, if anything could. You wil
nt in her innocent heart--do not think I
gh his glass in passing; "set himself in
Funerals had at all times a remarkable a
of curiosity or perplexity--as though he
ether, and restored the usual hand to hi
oreshadowed the likelihood, or the certa
ar together--as if they were afraid of b
ng talisman and charm used for keeping a
, touching him on the shoulder, hoarsely
door-keeper, whom he saw making his way 
 two passengers were, is there anything 
dubious and moral way. "It depends upon 
funereal manner with black horsehair, an
e here of an evening, listening, until I
of business perceived an advantage here,
; "but I may say among ourselves, that I
ortant to maintaining tax exempt status 
nd squares under the southern wintry sun
his one man sat leaning back, with his t
 cropped grass and the stubble of the co
se, the governor would escape, and the p
 repeated blowings of his nose, "all cou
to the face, or to the lips, of the mast
d the two trudged on together.
y engagement took him out, and he had se
"Ten o'clock, sir," said the man at the 
 rest. Each of these stoppages was made 
The shadow of a large high-roofed house,
nking her very good health. And it was f
a door-step the little pot of hot ashes,
 he should have been of a hot temperamen
th a helpless look straying all around, 
There was a blank silence.
 the final hour was Three, and he knew h
 Lorry had doubts of his business eye. T
ternoon, for three reasons of habit. Fir
 itself,--and was almost as in-looking.
 into her face. Her eyes were dilated an
lies before you. I demand no more than t
This eBook is for the use of anyone anyw
 authority, who directed the guard to op
words were spoken, and Mr. Lorry did not
iffidence, explained himself as meaning 
"The occupation resumed under the influe
"I think so. But it is, as I have told y
 he was ever in it."
A carriage with post-horses was ready at
n not engaged in making forays through t
"It brought me here, it brought me to my
-it struck out of the main avenue, and p
 as it dropped. It being all spent, he s
itizen Evremonde, called Darnay.
at a moderate statement of the quantity 
detach or remove the full Project Gutenb
ence and order us all to our homes. Miss
 hours, and that it would probably end i
so rely for right guidance, as on you. T
s, the keys of the accursed fortress of 
"I take them into mine!" said Carton. "_
at towers of Notre Dame; three hundred t
roasting chestnuts in the turned cylinde
 he probably would not have one. That, V
rning up after him (I could have forgive
os and threes, avenues of leafless trees
ross, whose agitation was so great that 
 in his usual way, "you see that there C
"Not that, sir! Let that be! I adjure yo
d gone straight up-stairs--and was surpr
on it. She had drawn close to him, in he
ple before long. It was too much the way
wering the touch for a moment, but not c
 as against this figure. And when he lif
He opened it in the light of the coach-l
arles; that I had no suspicion even of h
tter," he answered, a little coldly as t
manity, in this answer. The speaker seem
tfully of that young lady at this desk, 
me what you may not come to be fit for."
"I thought so. Quietly and steadily have
ewd sense and readiness, of great determ
were to wait somewhere for me; wouldn't 
a white-haired man sat on a low bench, s
his hands had never been so nimble and e
he streets a long time, don't be uneasy;
ly, and with a glance at her father.
 clung closer to his real presence and t
A very few French leagues of his journey
, massing his papers before him, whisper
earned profession in its Bacchanalian pr
he looked into the room and said somethi
re a cursed aristocrat!"
y pulse and heart in Saint Antoine was o
ng it in her lieutenant's hands, "and ha
s to absent himself from Tellson's for t
ppened not to be the name of the thing s
there. A curious contagion of whispering
"Oh indeed!" said Mr. Lorry, bending dow
to me to think of her shining upon what 
ing to his jackal that "he had thought b
he power and honour of families, these s
 Romance (for I hope I know better), sti
ning the hearse to take the coffin out, 
rate. He had taken service with the pris
ntain in the dark, another curious conta
 a whole city, the executioner showed th
gnorance on the shore. My friend is dead
t me show you the nearest tavern to dine
Stryver replied to my Lord, no; but he w
s One and Two sitting on the old pallet-
trenches, and drawbridges, seemed to the
laid her hand upon his arm. A strange th
eyes, and see coming over the hill six s
y and deliverance, he became so far exal
the Doctor himself sat reading at the wi
r: doubts, of her remaining upon earth, 
 had an unlawful occupation of an infamo
 like a faint pulsation; then, they gave
"I had to get into the front rank; I was
uss, his left at the barrel, and his eye
 the relics of prisoners which the popul
But, he had never seen his friend in his
 shoes!"
 his former air of contemplating cards:
brazen ecclesiastics, of the worst world
Jerry started in his saddle. "That's a B
ing her eyes, which were swollen and red
es, on a violent passage into the other 
"You didn't mean it," remarked the matte
plough upon it where it had been left la
re him.
se at hand, these three turned, and rose
. Lorry, in a low and sorrowful whisper.
."
lth, Mr. Darnay; why don't you give your
ette, the young beauty, and the mature w
 the air. He shook in a self-abnegating 
ith prisoners of both sexes. The women w
t atop of Shooter's yet! Tst! Yah! Get o
 me try. You remember a certain famous o
ng her husband, "if it depended on thee-
ities within, the shadows of the night t
anxious to obtain.
s--emblem to humanity, of the rest and s
 as a point in space where anything is s
"Don't say that, Miss Manette, for you w
ren. One or the other of you is for ever
, a group of soldiers. "Help, gentlemen-
th, and the lines of the orbits of the e
th, had turned when Mr. Lorry looked out
old your hand. I shall mind nothing when
 there will be others--if there are not 
 door, combined with the joy-ringing, fo
 sideways, with one of his shoulders in 
 he had lost the habit of associating pl
"I am sometimes."
m. By degrees, in the pauses of his quic
e was old. They kept him in a dark place
d been woven by the golden thread into t
chairs, as in a garden of public diversi
rned tell us it is doubtful whether thei
"Good night, citizen," said Sydney Carto
 pressing to admit of delay."
 himself for their joint sakes. Next to 
is reparable now. But, I am sure that he
is lips trembling; his daughter drew clo
h him, and received him with some little
And her agitated hand waved to them from
to him!"
 a Cupid over the counter? Yet such thin
ted himself while they were sitting unde
a loss to claim his own from the ghastly
etween the Concord and the coffee-room, 
them, contemplating the fallen figure. "
rished!" cried The Vengeance; and embrac
The chateau was left to itself to flame 
frizzling and powdering and sticking up 
gh to find her!
e.
n the road I have suffered a great deal.
 as he looks into the third.
d by the steepness of the hill. Graduall
Young Jerry relieved his father with dut
l. It was again a summer day when, latel
rnments, of no value but for their taste
."
ent away. So, the sunrise came, and the 
remember it! Sydney Carton. Advocate. En
ld have slowly formed in any one, the ab
"I have observed his face!" repeated mad
ndisguised look of abhorrence.
 the wall, and also of clerks not at all
 my Lord himself, turning the suit of cl
 he could have had no pride but in rende
and there, the inmate has visitors to se
eat towers, and still Defarge of the win
 forth on this duty, and made and brough
e pressed the work-worn, hunger-worn you
mehow or other, brought things to this. 
tall man with his arms bound--tied to hi
you, Monsieur heretofore the Marquis, th
n to echo so resoundingly to the tread o
ing found already dozing on the topmost 
uliar expression which he knew so well b
Her look so discomposed him that he stop
me that your ancient chum is a man of a 
ound; he never spoke, without first wand
ce?"
he cause of my becoming worse."
ASCII" or other format used in the offic
ping from this place; it never can be do
 true friend," said Carton, in an altere
"You don't get on with your account of y
 ought to be?"
o you. Oh Monsieur heretofore the Marqui
 poor supper, it did not creep to bed, a
hrough the rest of my misdirected life, 
p his mind to that magnanimous bestowal 
r of Fleet-street. "My love to Lucie, an
from the ground. He had gradually droppe
aint Antoine, and was wrought into the f
"Ah!"
nced in this world, must be carried over
erstition which should survive the truth
sly at him as her fingers moved. He had 
this day's disfigurement--and I hear him
 look; they take him past the mill, and 
ide, and all her earthly wrongs and sorr
it had carried me to the utmost brink of
ough. What would you have me do, my Life
ng and now walking, through the rest of 
octor. "Spare no detail."
the coach, added to the stillness of the
ing by the prison wall, is under the con
our, received such a check from the insc
honoured parent appeared to be adjusting
from his corner, and begged the favour o
"I'll tell you," said Sydney. "I lighted
re, in his seat near the window, reading
 knocking on the head, and retained to h
en, Mr. Stryver, exuding patronage of th
an sunshine.
spray of it in its advance had begun to 
n the boy got to his own door he had rea
h, she appeared to have innately derived
ur father soon wore his heart out in pri
She drew closer to him, and kissed his c
 and being faithful to you to the death.
f my soul. In my degradation I have not 
h-roofed house, and of many over-hanging
"Of what trade?"
ad, which had so particularly attracted 
 my boots keep a eye upon your mother no
"How dreadfully unkind in a brother noth
for their taste and fancy, that its effe
d had it conveyed to him, in an accident
ut to their own carriages--ah! equally l
dibly: "Officer! look to that young lady
rew her hand, and kissed his lips once m
he Doctor walked among the terrors with 
"Nothing, Carton."
eized or destroyed; and they might be, a
This is he; this helpless, inarticulatel
for so much application. It had taken a 
n of the Good Republican Brutus of Antiq
rats, and would doubtless feel a sacred 
d, he thought he had done with this worl
size?"
 making), and soothingly said, "Let him 
 through it, when he again stopped with 
eers in Fleet-street and the City of Lon
ind of funeral was coming along, and tha
tes, and fell asleep on his arms, with h
 So very great is the improvement Time h
ticed in the two figures was, that altho
"You comfort me so much! I am so ignoran
ow should a repetition of it be treated?
t lay, on a Friday night late in Novembe
ad below him. They all looked from the c
streets without footways, the fierce pat
been hard to say which was which.
 ready, and a bold, he had not that facu
said Defarge, shaking his head. "I know 
, it was given in a tender rain of tears
spoke here in his former thoughtful mann
 This was a courage that Madame Defarge 
nd the apparitions vanished from his sig
tronic work is posted with the permissio
e move his hand away. The wound was a sw
its barred windows had descried other fa
Her name and family?
"Tell me when I ask you, not now. If you
t with the shadows within, and what with
"Inform the Tribunal of what you did tha
ained, as if by a weight. By slow degree
 struck, clutched, and tore, and then re
ith fascinating company. So polite and s
 like madmen running a race, he falls. T
ffold, not long before, to be allowed to
 silence. The deeper he sank into this s
ging and lumbering upward among the many
n your ears, weep for it, weep for it! I
gh the rest of yesterday and through las
s face, his arms being bound.
"_I_ know, _I_ know," rejoined Mr. Carto
ted, Mr. Lorry said: "You come from Doct
he day ran into evening, so much life in
 no malice or mischance, delivered to th
He had suddenly started up, with his han
ion of Jerry.
dge you, but I deny the beauty. And now 
. He raised them, and saw her face. The 
urse of the forenoon, the head drawer at
"Do you mean to finish that pair of shoe
 prisoner's favour, and the President de
adame Defarge, pondering again. "Yet onc
he Prisons."
ead bent down, to converse with a mere g
y the hearth--"you will for ever seek th
strove in the thickest of the uproar.
n of a few hours. I could go to Soho in 
 bent over it again.
"Gone deaf in an hour?" said Mr. Crunche
he city that night, that it was the peac
still among the wheels, like sheep; the 
"I stand corrected; do you suppose--you 
man who stood knitting looked up steadil
ay even live to be old."
ice, "engaged in that pursuit originally
, that I have beaten my head against my 
n as a perfect gentleman, would seem, in
eeth with it, which probably gave him th
ng, that they their very selves were clo
o floors of a large stiff house, where s
"Many things."
: those nobles who had seen the coming s
e was troubled, and his hand was not tru
eads will be drinking, wherever we buy i
nt up to be dipped in it, as sick people
d about her head again. Those who had be
those allusions.
earse--advised by the regular driver, wh
he wine-shop over the lowered drawbridge
owing her arms passionately round him, i
 birds, carrying some grains of it to a 
ry came in late, from Tellson's, and sat
when I was left an orphan through my mot
ediments, Mr. Darnay as a young gentlema
e chamber-robe, to prepare himself gentl
do with. His practised eye saw it, and m
ith care. Having abundance of time for h
you, at that hour. Tell her that it was 
fficers with them, and threatening them 
 reassuring words, as the stony manner o
t long afterwards.
as, in England, he lived by giving instr
 to make, you are probably mindful of yo
Between the eyebrows and just over the l
s, his prosperity consisted.
arter to-day. A fell, uncompromising, mu
saving of only a few seconds here and th
"There is no doubt of the Jury?" inquire
o the suspicious circumstances that surr
ermission for the use of the work and th
d away for the Loadstone Rock.
 my desire for vengeance was unbearable.
 wing of a large house, approached by a 
ep for it!"
isation; stupefied birds wheeled about a
, and not only did it all get taken up, 
er four. Let us stretch the hour or two.
it seemed transparent. So he sat, with a
f mind enjoyable by the dear ones, depen
th a candle, to light him down the stair
"Well?"
come to me, relying on my confidence, ha
"That's true. Well! It is a forlorn hope
ssed, and in the ghastliness of their wo
parkling, glanced on the bride's hand, w
d an hour as happily?"
early so. Have you any reason to believe
 water, and dragged his useful friend in
om the first expectations of being a mot
d to the wood-sawyer, who hurriedly repl
 also attended by his cabinet minister, 
, and was not disposed of until the cloc
uld think of, with the truth that he had
hese strings of ragged people shortened 
in, and Mr. Attorney-General called Mr. 
 I had had of her.
ack, he ascended the old staircase alone
nsider it.
en sword, lying among the hay. That weap
un, when the substance was three hundred
gally required to prepare) your periodic
e river's bank, and over the bridge, the
cause Monseigneur could not make anythin
 son. You've got a religious mother, you
 husband out of France."
erked off his foot into his hand, and he
ce more.
could, and much more than he had himself
ations. The mildewy inside of the coach,
 became the bank, and did a great stroke
"The Prisoners!"
im from the vagrancy into which he alway
, clear eyes, and good sense; were at on
and, crossed the two intervening outer r
ould swallow a great many things with ea
orry looked out again, and the sun was r
 bank of Tilson known at Paris!
tle bells; and what with that ringing, a
d, especially among the luckier or light
ith his eyes fixed on the writer, his ha
"And what says he? What does he send me?
ich the fruits of life hung ripening, wa
 little Charles?' The child answered her
ry galleries from which the loves and gr
rry saw him shrink into the exact figure
Their housekeeping was of a very frugal 
ishing perseveringly, when he peeped in 
Doctor Manette took what was given him t
ith grim impatience. "Long live the Devi
"Once."
ather. Dwell upon that, for she would la
and his tidings at Tellson's, almost as 
 it to be a nice question. And yet I thi
n to you, now. You are well on your way 
his state was feverish; this one man sat
o keep the unfortunate gentleman so reti
-by accident--a day and half's journey o
t find it. What have they done with my w
f rooms without. Monseigneur was about t
u," pursued Stryver, "to look it in the 
ng to fall, and even now the dreadful ca
"Old Bailey spy," returned his informant
le should know there is such a man as I 
 all amiss, or whether he desired to sho
, all of you!"
dences were curious. Neither did he call
tryver, coldly. "Oh, to be sure! What am
eaking of?"
nother iron door in the series that was 
d dagger. Thus accoutred, and walking wi
 prison door of his daughter's husband, 
, trustee of one kind or other for score
ply, but it was evident that he heard wh
iness be perfect, while yours was incomp
taking care to keep at arm's length and 
nd might thicken faster and faster yet, 
is mind, and Mr. Carton made his way to 
it would have been seen to be the same i
istrust, "I know that your diplomacy wou
 It was so much, however, to her who rec
er by wholesale, and you ask me why I am
It was the best of times, it was the wor
ways be kept from her. It is known only 
ng that she is going to marry the nephew
e taken every conceivable care of; durin
to the whole countenance. Examined with 
o nobody, and there's no telling at the 
 that, if it were less objectionable, it
tle supper most nights, with fascinating
s, and they were prophetic, they would h
making shoes.
ms, but they speak as if they were alone
g and pawing the earth under the plane-t
"For to-morrow!"
ading at the window. He was in his usual
when Miss Manette's head dropped upon he
olden yellow still remained upon the tre
ore my name, a man winning his way up in
"No; I am not armed."
 rain, on the moving patch of light from
o you, on the faith of a gentleman, that
by any means in it, unless called in--wa
gher and higher, to the terror and wonde
hat had long fallen asleep, of my pretty
not consent to your being charged with a
h three dark hours. Then, the grey water
slowness, and additional tendency to hol
ore him, asked if he had yet discovered 
ho exercised the most authority. It was 
gether, and then heave a long low sigh, 
A figure entering at the door threw a sh
you really have the power you think you 
"On some hay on the ground, with a cushi
. Darnay?"
But, when his nephew, leaning an elbow o
ard work at neighbouring barricades in a
od, panting, against a background of eag
name and profession as having been for e
 a pleasant direction?"
ng to the utmost, he listened for any so
eatment of donations received from outsi
, of his two companions. In those days, 
thpick, coughed another grain of cough, 
farge had but followed and turned her ha
 it. He called himself for the plaintiff
p, and charming grandmammas of sixty dre
 over her shoulders with great pride and
the dying boy.
season of all others Saint Antoine turne
 no difficulty in deducing from your unr
im," she said, raising her hand to Mr. L
upon her breast, 'how useless I am, as y
 show him his friend before him in his a
ling the air, for you to outlive denunci
that seemed to encompass this grim old o
 Lightning," said Defarge.
gly expressive of an engrossing terror a
es, guard-houses, gates, trenches, and d
 sang its sweetest song with all its mig
 asked, looking with attention at the ho
climbing up a tower, they were alone. He
 much needed, this suggestion, too, was 
s and happy; but he could not fail to ob
 far in advance of me that two gentlemen
the observation to his next neighbour, a
n her bosom.'
or a spoon in the collection," said Miss
 and you there is an impassable space. I
ss Manette, when the little picture of a
t on some one to say, "Much better," Mr.
another enemy strangled.
r of fidelity about him, which was new t
ir purpose, as in a convenient and retir
sically) into companies and conversation
ttention: "he has been found under anoth
Lucie and her father! Lucie with her arm
public. Let him take care of his face!"
 the prisoner of the Republic."
e, and to bear his testimony, at whateve
, looking again at the scraps of the day
will serve pretty nicely at about two in
enly, the postilions exchange speech wit
y mangy, gave quite an Undertaking air t
 polished uncle.
"Yes."
st moment.
 certificate which enables me to pass ou
 as another, I have no doubt: better, I 
r. Jarvis Lorry walked along the sunny s
and the Farmer worked unheeded, those tw
on her father's hand. Answering the touc
There! Bless you, Mr. Cruncher! Think-no
y relinquished a title that was distaste
rbance of mind, and to his young compani
h in this agreement violates the law of 
ame can suffer from me in no other, for 
to be dreaded.
l with me, and my faults were not confir
, the mender of roads would discern with
cs sat in his halls, six body-women wait
, for a moment, he did feel resigned, th
mission, I shall, perhaps, accept Tellso
idered a discreditable station--though i
ce that had been entrusted to it. Suffer
 boldest people afraid to speak of in a 
"Listen then, Jacques," Number One of th
her's face looks up in yours, when you s
ied he is with his son-in-law."
at he sold at this time. A sour wine, mo
region of the Circumference of Truth. Th
 street, sitting beside the Queen. It is
"They ain't worth much, then. Whether or
on in the little village, until the wond
ect for the mad hospital?" said the wine
 prison manners and gloom, so spectral d
"
erks not at all old, who danced in publi
his face on the pavement in that spot, a
hem, to see that they were not painful. 
h lanterns, at the guard-house there. "Y
f a prison for any length of time; if hi
e's letter from his prison of the Abbaye
 Jury and the turbulent audience, he mig
ed to breathe again, and the guard got d
 him a sudden sense of terror, like that
 to stop him. When he had kept it so a l
us!"
d business; considered with any referenc
e applicable state law.  The invalidity 
en of it. In the village, taxers and tax
ittle crowd; but all eyes, without compa
ork.
soner does not perfectly understand that
to have the honour of drinking her very 
ed in their season.
led to her husband that she would get th
f thou be changed into this shape by the
Give it me!"
d Stryver, nodding his head in a smoothi
gh no one was ever presented to her cons
 in going by; for, the man eyed him inqu
le Court!"
l lanterns came glancing forth for the u
s contents:
"I understand equally well, that a word 
 and sixty, with the breadth of a county
ant to remember, in the great service yo
"Lucie and I have been there; but only c
 will take care of him until you return,
 to have been addressed here, on the cha
ne ghost had been laid only a round doze
"Steady it again, and write what I shall
hung, fire burned. The altitude of the g
 he had been with Lucie until just now, 
ose voice was that?"
 real jackal may be supposed to think of
ng, and were winding and climbing up a t
 away or re-use it under the terms of th
, much worthier of yourself."
eeps; all the village dreams of that unh
"What the Devil! How many more of them!"
is Lorry, countersigned."
able to be remembered by!' your seventy-
their ever running dry. Nor would it hav
tm name associated with the work.  You c
ly yours? Can I separate my father's twi
y with the Cruncher family, until Young 
t was from the ground, how many steps it
he hand he stretched out for his glass--
rding to solemn inscription in the littl
stained endeavour was forged, and the on
 set off with spoils of women's lace and
s of twenty, whose poverty and obscurity
his mind; the slow toil up the hill at s
ver again, and it will surely yield the 
ose words, that burden of the night, str
rvis Lorry withdrew to consider it.
it seems to me."
rred, plunder-wrecked rains. As for the 
d risen and identified him, and that thi
Not before dark night did the men and wo
 in advance, and always going on the sid
ich she cheated herself into the show of
t had long been growing worse, and was n
ike any other door of French constructio
rovement came upon him as to this. The m
e coarse garb of the Carmagnole.
cripples, were offering black baskets of
 have been completed for some days, to r
nd a festival. She had seen the houses, 
"I know, my dear, I know. I have seen it
blance he undoubtedly bore to the prison
rawn on a hurdle to be half hanged, and 
st! Yah! Old Bailey Spi--i--ies!"
 Tuileries, where the aspect of things r
I hint to you of a Home that is before u
octor is not in his right mind? The Revo
 shoulder. His shirt-sleeves were rolled
dedly trimming and shaping them into gra
tronic work is discovered and reported t
 a man," said Stryver, inflating himself
tall man suddenly got up from the ground
x. For he was furnished with that comple
ate, I have imagined her, in the moonlig
dred and Five, North Tower, when he made
"
lethargy, worn out. She had nestled down
. If your sagacity, knowledge, and exper
se dark bread; he ate of this between wh
ely boy.
easurably wider and higher, and swept De
orldly point of view; in a selfish aspec
e, and moved away in different direction
he live: and whosoever liveth and believ
can I transact business if I am confused
shed under the wheels."
?'
w whether they are in that room or not, 
 Defarge."
 and they could then arrange at their le
"Citizen Doctor," said the first, reluct
When he had sat in his saddle some half-
rrangements, and left her by herself to 
 in a determined voice, "are we ready?"
her Ladybird ever gained admittance. On 
fts bestowed upon him towards the execut
"It is bad weather, gentlemen," said Def
looked back and the guard looked back, a
l leaning their arms on the counter clos
sly the weakness of the position. There 
d _through_ rather than _at_ the low cei
he look and bearing of the brothers were
ckly as the journey can be made. Your pr
 upon it no longer than a few minutes, h
nay asked the postmaster, when he had th
ed fragments with eager relish. There wa
arge. I know it from her own lips. I hav
g, looking out of window, and generally 
infringement, a defective or damaged dis
pathies and fears, and therefore Mr. Att
what profession? Gentleman. Ever been ki
ng and Queen to restore him, he was fort
wed thing and another, been choused this
mited right of replacement or refund set
warthy forehead with it, and said, "Wher
nd at rest, I cause you to think of your
h for him?"
ually happened?
ant, and the hurry of them became more a
 would present himself to this old frien
 cage, bloody and dusty as last night, l
ry minute's delay tending to compromise 
"What is the matter?" said the man who h
wn mind--we all make such arrangements, 
ce; nor the booting and tramping here an
ope she is, my dear man," cried the dist
back at her.
conceive the idea of improving on his me
"You think there never might have been a
in the tumbril on his way to the Guillot
 had been steaming again, shook himself,
rbuss, and stood on the offensive.
opened it. A rude clattering of feet ove
cumstances likely to renew it are exhaus
uppression always shut up within him. In
"So at least you say he may have been on
ere all well with Charles, and he were t
stematically leading to the most frightf
octor, I. He may wear his head or lose i
nd Monseigneur, again escorted by the Fu
cording to Doctor Manette's reiterated i
utiful colour faded away into a poor wea
"Not even so. I might not have the hopef
strong gate. The house belonged to a gre
et shall he live: and whosoever liveth a
. She had some faint hopes that his medi
ily have been found in Paris for a provi
he street, not quite decided where to go
flaring Jezebels, the churches that are 
S OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY 
th any reference to the scarecrows in th
were gloweringly confidential together. 
is life, to disclose. How the evidence t
so immediately, and so much to the chang
orward, disarmed one to arm another, lab
om her father) it might be once in five 
r, he was recompensed for his suffering,
 must inevitably have come of this young
 indeed, with great firmness of purpose,
revious time of which this is the natura
ire, and as he sat, with its light shini
There was a longer pause than usual, bef
iron bars, that I have now a secret to c
ened the blind, and put his hand upon th
provided with no answer to the question,
g-rods and riding-whips, of which many a
"Is, I assure you," said the spy; "thoug
"Decidedly. May one ask what it is for?"
the name of that sharp female newly-born
"Leave us, good boys; we have business h
"Ten o'clock, sir."
t. Of his pleasures, general and particu
o doubt it relieved his pain so much, by
rovisions.
nd her closer to you, if such a thing ca
or, and they come to be less hungry, and
untered to delay him, though the fallen 
ily and unsteadily to his lodgings, like
 love. I solemnly swear to you that I kn
e, at his hoarsest.
aster and faster, obstinately counting a
 word or two of reassurance.
ithdrew to the back of the dock, and sat
"If I understand," said the Doctor, in a
 the evidence that had been warped and w
g, and never to come out of it, except t
to explain in the street. Could you favo
 them into anything she pleased.
.
 "But it's not my business!" he would ge
arter of an hour there was not a human c
 said Defarge.
l added in words, "Long live the Republi
e to listen, and then the piercing shrie
and shall thank and bless you for it--th
ught of finding out the wine-shop again 
"What I have been thinking as we came al
courage, for his sake. That was well don
courtyard. But, the lesser grindstone st
ng, and it was very, very hard, to loose
ilding, that chateau of Monsieur the Mar
than I am. I shall sink lower, and be wo
ious sorts, was waiting to issue forth; 
"_I_ don't know," returned the man, clap
s being carried off to some suitably ret
n a wild bright day, and he lifted his f
here? How came he to have fallen asleep,
. "Good. Christian name?"
 wondering what subtle powers were for e
r worth interfering with. As to its bein
hitherto remained standing. He watched h
d, was another and more real child. Of h
"In the dead of the night. Was he the on
aid, to very poor account. The bronze fa
se. Miss Pross had lighted the lamp, but
e painful to Doctor Manette to have the 
g was got rid of until November should c
he prisoner a moment before, as if with 
he ghost of beauty, the ghost of stateli
en it was over, like a patron; "you are 
 price that you put _your_ prayers at!"
 from forty-five to fifty years of age. 
expectation of a hopeful kind, since a s
eliver to the night watchman in his box 
," said he, glancing upward at the moon,
lled hard at their chains, and reared im
 moved.
e found.
 of black mahogany, and no light to spea
s. The same cautious counsel directed ev
and looked in that direction too; glance
 was questioned, she exaggerated it.
owards him. Evremonde then sees the Spy,
ion in his breast that Mrs. Cruncher mus
aid, that night, any more than Mr. Jarvi
e scheme was worked out with care. Havin
f frivolity, the ghost of wit, the ghost
be full of sympathy with its enemies. I 
t see her. I can put my hand out, to do 
 a dozen out, while as many people got o
 know it is a capital crime, to mourn fo
used his tools mechanically, and, one wo
 the World was not so real with me, and 
breath, and having the pulses quickened 
walking up and down, which testified to 
lf-denial, and perseverance. In the fair
"Not very much. You are a turnkey at the
He was stayed by the Doctor's putting ou
They both listened.
 two thumbs, from the corners of his mou
inder at him; "no, Sydney, it's my duty 
 want wine, among the rest. Nice toasts 
lish trial and could corroborate his acc
ancy."
Defarge had described himself, that day,
REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover 
as he was, and four times as offensive.
sharing your fortunes, sharing your life
 to me and taking me out to show me that
 Lucie, showing her that he had known no
 up and down, free from distracting fanc
ired of this spectre:
 Disposing these articles about him in s
loud of dust, the red glow departed quic
 back to her, dead and at peace, and yet
ersation, like a regular member of the e
who stood at the bottom of the steps on 
he two gentlemen; they both looked in un
"Therese!" she cries, in her shrill tone
urn for her so much, swelled to her eyes
yself or her for nothing--since she was 
my lodgings in London. Some three years,
"Very much." He said it with an involunt
er to corner, swallowing talk in lieu of
might be permitted to come and go as a p
 him for the latter by saying that he ha
"My memory is still accurate, but I cann
fore their blood ran into the blood spil
There was a change on the village where 
with whom this history has business. The
e away into the streets, the same red hu
sses from the necks of noble lords at Co
t in his, and repeated the word.
Mr. Cruncher's attention was here divert
and that I ought to have had a voice in 
"Monseigneur, there are so many little h
this matter, as in all others, the commo
"You were very sound, Sydney, in the mat
"The day I left England!"
 two nights without resting. Let me fini
l come, the time will not be long in com
had any but a unnat'ral wife, and this p
t be done; I sanction it. But, I would n
nd new computers.  It exists because of 
ot a disorganised city there would be no
for the completion of its load, had been
They found it surging and tossing, in qu
first. He had seen the prisoner show the
lege as your child, companion, and frien
They spoke low, as people watching and w
"In England."
e chair by which she had hitherto remain
ross.
slaves, to youth when they have lost it,
"You will be careful to keep them separa
"A moment more."
o him.
astily dividing the business that was ne
 another? Could a repetition of it be pr
his intimacy with the prisoner, in reali
 charmed life in this city. I have been 
sing, seemed to strike those words, that
o know how you speed; though, mind! I ex
cent provinces, in search of impoverishe
hey might eat grass, and who died, and w
look or gesture, to the pity of the peop
uncher stood at his side, and touched hi
married.
With an exclamation of impatience, but w
the gate again when it was shut, and tou
As he held her to his heart and turned h
the reasons that he had, for feeling con
eatening and dark, on both the mother an
. "Hush! The soldiers' swords are sharpe
"
and know the persons. It is for their sa
id of four strong men besides the Cook.
rough, and the lamp is burnt out, and th
for a moment--half inquiringly, half as 
rison wall. Her husband saw her (so she 
t even say what time--when I employed my
e shoved back into the Centre, by fastin
 or form, and much too near together--as
, nerve him to remain quite still. His h
ord more. But, Mr. Lorry thought he saw,
"She had reasons for believing that ther
g more than to get to Paris, though I co
 light shining upon her golden hair, and
, miss; either word will do."
 that moment dressed by the Cow with the
d through them jocosely.
st in the whole life and death of the ci
 so oppressed; perhaps, even to the name
ou; I ain't a going out, till you've bee
the taking of the Bastille, citizen?"
 of him; then, upward at the speaker.
 face and pleasant efforts to please her
 the better for being out of court."
.
"Who goes here? Whom have we within? Pap
"Well!" said Stryver, slapping the desk 
led the illustrious creature in sight of
are on the hill above it, and are like t
 executed this little commission, I shal
 Lorry, breathless and confused. "What i
unflower pushing its way at the sun from
 to you, miss, the story of one of our c
oads joined the group.
orry?"
angman, powdered, gold-laced, pumped, an
bstance of the Shadow      Chapter XI   
Up the broad flight of shallow steps, Mo
ages below, even though assisted off wit
y to look; put it up carefully with mine
n don't see all this here a goin' on dre
hough with a subtle difference, a specie
Yet even when his eyes were opened on th
uses peeped at them as they talked, and 
eyebrows a little, "it is probably false
wing again.
ritten with this gaunt hand.
s cursed life is not his own!"
ly reading the paper quite in the far-of
t his side under the tree, many and many
o rest, forgetful through a few calm hou
"Mr. Lorry, look upon the prisoner. Was 
of both.
for no man on earth, and no man on earth
 trade alone altogether. Call yourself a
"What is that noise?" said the Doctor, t
r. Lorry. You are as good as another, I 
ing the last."
ood faith and simplicity, four years ago
gh up, swooped screaming off. No fight c
at went to every heart, "A long imprison
her. A solemn consideration, when I ente
; and perhaps second-hand cares, like se
apers over yonder are involved. The Lord
 which warmed and lighted it as though i
No white-haired man was there now; but, 
ey.
the afternoon, and the air, which had be
 a dread lurking in his mind, that those
 Pross, he took immediate steps towards 
Miss Pross and he divided the night into
 come with me. But there is no one there
welve o'clock?'
course of time got himself shut up in hi
e; it rose upon no sadder sight than the
idge, massive stone walls, eight great t
en, both at Calais and Boulogne. He love
 really don't know that it is your busin
obody else knew it to be his name; his o
lf hanged, and then he'll be taken down 
, had been suddenly fired, a fast-spread
rself to his judgment, the scheme was wo
. You will be sure to hear when the jury
the old pallet-bed, each with his chin r
had taken his sister from a convent, whi
t he had written something, and hidden i
"Indeed!" said Defarge, with much indiff
 with him, and bumped down, dead and hea
manner. There was a character about Mada
meagre children; and lovers, with such a
n then and there present, who, like hims
is soul, it was also in its nature to ar
e two compressions, or dints, the only l
 that assorted very well with that decor
 looking all round, and snapping his fin
The mender of roads looked _through_ rat
y knees as I have prayed to Him."
n to the last Marquis, abandoned the est
down, and the father and daughter sat do
"I am the resurrection and the life, sai
 race, to answer for them. I mark this c
ixed look when he had ceased to speak, t
ve looked it in the face, in my differen
 pain. Could it have lived an hour as ha
equire a long time; it is the rule."
uld to calm her, and went himself into t
 and most men drank hard. So very great 
ped merely to suffer and not to propitia
ed the thought in his mind to its possib
 the ante-chambers of Monseigneur. Proje
"May the Devil carry away these idiots! 
arnay, rising to ring the bell, "there i
 tell you at this time, and I cannot tel
 popular game, by a lady who had bestowe
Sydney had not gone far out of sight, wh
her's side, and watched him. The darknes
t of both.
he wine-shop thus, joined Monsieur Defar
"No."
ted Defarge.
 afternoon at about the time when the pu
o is it?"
demonstrative herein, that he might have
ave made friends or permanent connection
scribed in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project 
poverty and obscurity often before. In a
g.
ious woman, give me a irreligious one! Y
 will take care of him, and set him on h
esolate, and who would mourn for her so 
me why I bring it, or what it means; I h
r little plaything to die so, than to li
s time, for you to be out in, unprotecte
 the suit of clothes, now inside out, no
off by so many little adornments, of no 
her hand, had a strong beneficial influe
 soon the noisome flavour of imprisoned 
"When I speak of success, I speak of suc
ile.
*****
e up with Monseigneur on the road. He ha
pressive of people out of breath, and ho
im; after grasping the hand of Mr. Lorry
e man who opened it, with his heavy ridi
to find where the bench and work were hi
The man looked at him, looked at the vil
ps they passed, had a wary eye for all g
ressed. Miss, if the poor lady had suffe
you, I have forborne, and forborne, as l
egister, doomed to destruction and exter
h?"
 many eccentric fits, into the houses. A
Darnay.
 ruin, it was not a time to yield to suc
d understand some few syllables that she
s by some few sullen minds supposed to b
he same mechanical way--"though it's not
s."
 her, rose quickly, and presented hersel
e table, with his separate bottle of por
l by turns and all together, until the v
rt and turned her beautiful head between
arned friend, Mr. Stryver, massing his p
d, asked: "Is this rustic to be sent bac
inging a Liberty song. Happily, however,
red, and began anew:
ities are touched in such a case, no ech
"Do you particularly like the man?" he m
 and the two patriots, leading his tired
er of the street, and Carton led the way
rt and by descent an Aristocrat, an enem
"Patriots!" said Defarge, in a determine
pposite to him at the same table, with h
tions which had been carved by prisoners
ued, he said: "Removed to the Concierger
now devoted to you with all the constanc
" he put his hand in his coat, and took 
round whose virtues and services would h
rom the person or entity to whom you pai
That he had no recollection whatever of 
Evremonde!" and he followed into a large
all articles of grocery, and a measure o
n counting on your return these three or
ke you, to be seen speaking to him publi
 commenting, applauding, disapproving, a
"I am an old student here."
ds into which the sun changed them, unti
s whispered in the echoes, which has bee
"See!" cried madame, pointing with her k
 where one of the fatal lamps swung, and
 a terrible nature were going up to Heav
 to serve you? Have I no power for good,
nks or holes in the wall. On hearing foo
to one another, and to interchange the i
onal bullets. It had never been a good e
ng. The trees and the night are all that
reets had a portentously elastic swing w
"How goes it, Jacques?" said one of thes
ocious time that was like a gnashing of 
"There is not," pursued the nephew, in h
her?"
horn in the house that Jack built.
k to his conversation with your daughter
m, the whole scene like a lifeless deser
e Americans. That, for these reasons, th
d cathedral shone bright in the light of
y should all be obliterated for her sake
-left its own heap of refuse on its own 
ay. Something especially reckless in his
ast, bearing the prison officers with th
 up the window, draw his arm securely th
The great grindstone, Earth, had turned 
o careless as to be almost insolent. He 
 of his face!"
 peeping up the lane, the next object th
uch your history with something not quit
t her by no means affectionate brother, 
r us and shake us; sometimes, we stick i
, and his influence was all opposed to h
 can show you. But you will not be able 
scorted, and requested him to dismount. 
il Tellson's by sheltering the wife of a
ether. Like the fabled rustic who raised
ll old Foulon, who told the famished peo
le moment, the face that I once knew so 
im. Crowds of the wicked and the wretche
 respecting the Bank, which a great chan
"Enough!" said Defarge, with grim impati
lways remembered with fear and trembling
 when the place shall fall, to examine t
hat iron rust from? He don't get no iron
p all night at a party which had taken a
light of heart, he was with Lucie again,
n for repression was gone. But, it was t
g people old; the children had ancient f
known to the time, and with all the enga
cape, and the people's blood (suddenly o
t to dark doubt and dread.
neak away."
words recorded what they saw. Such vapou
ook it from his hand, but laid it on the
"why don't you call a health, Mr. Darnay
ndows there are no people, and in some t
.
s forgotten it, and a light answer does 
oes he send me?"
ou!"
ris?'
at not a sound was heard, Mr. Lorry look
been blown and stormed out, which did oc
t of hot ashes, at which she had been tr
im to get up, and steep his towels anew.
 closet with a single pane of glass in i
 head; for he gained in firmness as he s
rovement Time has brought about in such 
er us, outrage us, beat us, kill us; but
ept one man, who got up and went out.
e; but I would give all I have, except t
oon is plunging after us, and the whole 
Cramped in all kinds of dim cupboards an
e shared by no one?"
Madame Defarge, with a slight movement o
eart out in prison, or wasted there thro
d of the day awaited their fate. They we
them."
at wooden shoes, and lay down on his bac
"Keep near to me, Jacques Three," cried 
ping at the dark street corner, "what do
As he said the word, a blow was struck u
gain:
isoner. It would be worse than useless n
tent on the road-mender; Jacques Three, 
together, "such great things as this. Bu
old to Ladybird? He doesn't know me, and
ut some remonstrance by any sane man who
tridges, powder, and ball, bars of iron 
s, some ate and drank as they looked on,
 the equipages of feudal nobles, the toi
eally have not heads enough; it would be
fires, there were other functionaries le
t was said laughingly, and to beguile th
s truest to them in the season of trial,
 had confided hers, seemed to take her c
ross. "I am very much put out about my L
"Dear me!" said Mr. Lorry, as the safest
"Good day!" said Monsieur Defarge, looki
her, likely. You want a promise from me.
if I should make a mistake, it could nev
 short, but try."
ight and remarkable in his look, that, f
"I am not at all alarmed. Earnestness in
endly heart to believe that he looked up
nal to-day. You are again the prisoner o
isters on the table, that his son-in-law
sking himself, "Why not?" The sagacity o
 the door, and shut himself up to take h
It fell out that he was thus engaged in 
f Beauvais.
 whether he was not still asleep. For, g
ance, under Heaven, was on him. He alway
ses, engendered in the vices and neglect
nette, I have come here to realise. Let 
T WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, 
Accordingly, when Mr. Lorry called that 
be as well to get all the preliminaries 
"Kill him!" croaked Jacques Three, who h
"Well! Some whisper this, some whisper t
e yesterday, and both made you out to be
ton seated himself at the table, resting
in view. The honoured parent steering No
ut he lies yonder, under a little heap o
ts. Many a night he vaguely and unhappil
with nothing in her face but love and co
so much life in the city ran into death 
"Once. When he called at my lodgings in 
lose together at the side of a door, and
d the patient on a sofa, and tended her 
ly acquiesced in, and they passed her ov
 the glass his face flushed, and his rig
o Miss Pross, after anxious consideratio
rm earth shaken by the rushes of an angr
, the waiter shifted his napkin from his
d her up to their rooms.
Her father and their old friend got into
 setting sun, the descent, the mill, the
beach. The little narrow, crooked town o
ertaking you. Will you please to enter t
here, by your flopping tricks and your u
say at eight to-night--come you to me, i
"A young lady's walking shoe," he mutter
ing got his tools together and all thing
belong to this world again."
ry, with the note in his hand. Mr. Lorry
 to see those whom she has the power to 
rtue known as patriotism, or love of cou
under to go to Paris, and showing her, a
of clothes, pretty well worn, but very w
 no loud irruption into the courtyard, a
rry had begun, when Miss Pross took him 
u mean that."
n usual, to-day."
m, he answered, in his former strong for
 visitation had so turned into stone, th
left him climbing to the window, and I c
 much above a whisper, began to tell her
ction of rent and taxes--though it was b
I know better. I distress you; I draw fa
g to this appeal, she sat so still when 
tle as possible, and looked about him.
f course. For such variety of reasons, T
lty," said the other. "Don't you be afra
s there."
ure his good will, she always spoke to h
tronic work is derived from the public d
 had fully comprehended that no personal
ek, in which to soften his modicum of ha
with vinegar, as a precaution against ga
hat crash was the last thing I should ev
gued well for his shouldering his way up
What was said in this disappointing anti
er, as much defaced and beaten out of th
t, you know, and will reserve my place. 
me, sir."
elusion since he came to it from the Tri
ossibly you have heard of me."
every line of the narrative he had heard
eet, and so, up a covered way, into a ta
teadfastness of Fate. The water of the f
 good man, there was first a great crash
and why should he so demean himself as t
hat ability to make much of little means
 seldom, if ever, known to be an infirmi
XVIII. Nine Days
ring over large books, and casting his b
unate King of France had been upon his t
street as if the baffled blue-flies were
ompass of one lumbering old mail coach; 
ally suppressed and quieted, was still l
 State your reason. Why wouldn't you go?
 his head hanging down; then recovered h
 to look round for that thing, lay hold 
RS.
 with the phrase "Project Gutenberg"), y
gon's head had surveyed it, when it was 
onal endurance and distress. It was not 
esemblance in it to the noise convention
 it as though it were the light of Freed
void attracting notice, and to give as l
and the heart. There was life, and no mo
ike Monsieur Manette, your father, the g
and not in a character that gives facili
, looked terrified at Madame Defarge. Ma
doubt you must have been a solitary pris
that I am a subject of His Most Gracious
 overflowed the city to that point. Alar
anner. There was no cessation, but the r
ociated from stature) was shortness.
irst.
as referable to her father, through the 
pkeeper without any introduction in the 
ked at the other three, and his finger q
.
-"
lanced in a casual manner round the wine
Young Jerry, walking with the stool unde
 the more belligerent spirits, a rumour 
eets.
 of our impatience is then so great, tha
He and the mender of roads sat on the he
 NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIB
r him to force himself to utter a word u
ucie, the wife of Evremonde; is it not?"
been frequently observable, and had grow
ydney Carton, retrospectively, and idlin
 sees one. Show him that shoe you are wo
imes of terror--he stopped at a chemist'
 I should think," retorted Jerry, "wheth
oment's demur; but the great trust he he
n all such things is changed for the wor
ntil just now, and had only left her for
me, our father's heart burst; he never s
"Which is Evremonde?" says a man behind 
his mind, he foresaw that the dreadful w
 until he had heard of it from herself, 
o or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm e
linquish. What is it but a wilderness of
er to him, laying her head upon his brea
patriots there. Why not say so? You were
e Vengeance with alacrity, and kissing h
having had the power to prevent this arr
"If it had been possible, Miss Manette, 
"A daughter. A-a-matter of business--don
ned on the step, half in the coach and h
 the mind will express itself through an
tes in the whole gamut of Crime, were pu
re, and then reversed the spin, and all 
But, all this was at first. Before long,
hake of her head and a flash of her eyes
ons of starving peasants! No; the great 
 stooped over them, after repeated blowi
 breakfast. He looked at no one present,
emple Bar to read.
er on Turnham Green, by one highwayman, 
"Sir."
r when he and Doctor Manette emerged fro
 blooming, beautiful, and happy, without
ipe out, put it in his breast, slipped o
her--though he added that he knew it was
 made the third. He regretted that Charl
te right hand was occupied with an axe, 
er father would unquestionably be guilty
 more than you can help to nobody, and t
"Do you think:" the uncomplaining eyes i
"So! But on other moonlight nights, when
"Miss Lucie at home?"
Madame Defarge, composedly, "shrouds."
aten. Have you followed my hand, Mr. Bar
 affairs, both private and public; and h
ry, stood drinking at the little counter
the taking of your own seat in the carri
 in them for the worst, of health for th
han he could have shown if their relativ
n sight of three men, whose heads were b
ot would be produced before them. That, 
OLUTION
 he came to his breakfast. He resented M
the best, you'll tell me," said Miss Pro
et wine before the mender of roads calle
ee o'clock in the morning.
d!" The swinging sentinel was posted, an
as to be got; these were to be told off 
beholders covered their faces.
ry called that night as late as ten o'cl
ime past and I am used to him. Nobody wi
ual odours."
 like shrivelled branches of trees in a 
pi--ies!"
 protest to you that this is a forgery a
ehend. I belong to Tellson's Bank. You m
, and great composure of manner. There w
"Are you quite a stranger to me, sir?"
tached himself from the clasping hand, a
l-side once again, as on the evening whe
ing terror, a word might bring it down u
d to the rest of its contents, and havin
exhaustion, at the hotel of Monseigneur.
his agreement.  There are a few things t
smirched, his head more out of a long sq
ster turned his horse into the yard, the
ife's end. In any of the burial-places o
d had any but a unnat'ral mother, I migh
e great window of the bed-chamber where 
 habitation within the great foul nest o
 minutes in tortures of suspense, and we
nd found Lucie at her work, alone. She h
own advantage, you would set upon the bi
ersed (which is invariably the case, all
capitulated and returned to their duty.
not ask that word, to save my life."
ld to know that there is nothing in it b
on by a single hair as he passed the Bar
, interposed a few words for the memory 
 sympathy.
s she felt it ought to be. The shadows o
to ease his spent horse, but to wipe the
y of face: not of an active kind, but po
 that lady then--sharply, and yet as if 
rry, "I may appeal to a gentleman of you
 Jury's declaring themselves satisfied t
fter you had left us, when I was talking
tate himself over the hill-side once aga
th the outrageous mob, that I only got a
t hoisting-up of Monsieur Gabelle behind
in it, I would embrace any sacrifice for
ainly should never have done, you may ta
site (www.gutenberg.org), you must, at n
 to the Republic."
es, whose drooping eyelids and half-seen
ath, had felt the weight when his lord w
"This is something new to me, Mr. Lorry.
But, the question reminded him of his wo
ess to that degree as is ruinating--star
e the closed blinds in all the other win
that they would soon be reunited--the li
a banking away like smoke at Tellson's, 
 who stopped all comers and goers, cross
ad come had almost destroyed their sense
is wood, and hid his confusion over the 
your own father, you young Rip? This boy
arnay, quite astounded, "that I should h
 both--you will compose yourself now, to
tinctively kneeled on the ground beside 
"Not at all," retained the ancient clerk
is prisoner?"
aid Lucie, excusing herself, with a pale
ng to Ladybird's pleasant face and pleas
late the traitor he could no longer cher
h a steady head: confident in his power,
vive the old danger.
a gag--tied so, with a tight string, mak
; but he made the best of it, and turned
"Yes; for a walk with me. Why not?"
no restorative but air, and to remember 
 question by the young lady, turned hims
o welcome when it came; no doubt it reli
 (for I have another) to a place beyond 
"I kiss your hand, miss," said Mr. Lorry
st been apparent; "now, go home!"
 a sickly manner overhead, as if they we
eave it and who have been long wrung to 
to me!' Ask him, is that so."
d been fixed on mine, slowly turned to t
to him to have been stopped, like a cloc
tten. The list was read, in the vaulted 
 he arrived at the prison of La Force.
ispers of his story, brought him. His sc
ette sat down, with his eyes looking aro
can ask then. At present, you may buy yo
e of the coach, with its damp and dirty 
hour."
tor disquieted. "I would recommend him t
hose lips had once occupied three strong
 of Use part of this license, apply to c
y, recruiting at every step, and all the
"I'll think of it," said Sydney.
the nephew, "whether, if it had carried 
l the family!"
e put into a species of Condemned Hold a
ity, attended by her cavalier.
s Pross, "I am desperate. I don't care a
ow was struck upon the door.
oined Mr. Carton, carelessly. "Don't be 
ve fallen on you."
u do."
 and intellectual property (trademark/co
The valet come and gone, Monsieur the Ma
n 2001, the Project Gutenberg Literary A
 directed by herself with such a wise an
 and honoured men, bringing a boy of my 
he wigged gentleman with the papers befo
of shoe it is, and the maker's name."
rself wot I've had the honour of odd job
pe of being dug out?"
rg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the 
ng that important part of himself as a s
ey were in a close room of state, instea
all carry in mine to my life's end. In a
ng drink. Since last night he had taken 
re like the wondering of some other spir
 to this course, and in favour of one of
"On board of the packet-ship just now re
ver heard. No, no. She was--and He was--
"If I might touch him! If I might embrac
void dark alleys, fearful of its coming 
 and with a strength both of will and ac
 that Tellson's was the triumphant perfe
s her hold upon his arm, that he feared 
"That's business," said Mr. Lorry, resum
te. I confide this paper, in the writing
t, weep for it! If, when I hint to you o
"Let us shudder too. We may know what it
milies, these slight favours that might 
t it, look at it! You may take it in you
ou so, long ago."
as he was, and commiserated by that agit
 her face. The two spectators started fo
ere machine. To go on--"
d could never come of such evil, a happi
the city.
latory      Chapter V      The Jackal   
at an innocent man was to die for the si
It was ten o'clock at night when he stoo
t and the long of it is, that I am a sub
would not enable Her to go to see him. S
t that I belong to it. It has no good in
ose up.
est, that never did sea roll which bore 
ssistance and take me to the coach."
 a great bundle of papers before him: an
r, or stand out of the way of the door a
ad left the spot; "it shall not be in va
and had offered as pupils to Lucie's hus
"Ah!" returned the man, with a relish; "
me how I could shelter my father from th
r. Cruncher dwelt upon this as quite a l
ck, riding before him and stopping him b
"Are they both yours to renounce? France
len on the pillow beside her pretty char
ey under coercion, he ate and drank what
Mr. Lorry's feet were arrested on the st
"Perhaps at my wine-shop?"
 with his own hands. A small, dim, crook
indow. Jarvis Lorry. Banker. English. Wh
ive, lowered displeased, as if the Stryv
y, but at nothing else. Under the Presid
e, was to be atheistical and traitorous.
y, trust me! I have gone aside from my p
After this odd description of his daily 
The Doctor sat with his face turned away
sponsible waistcoat.
hey mused about enduring, or inflicting.
gh, "Yes, my faith! And you are looking 
o desirable to be good use in the beginn
ongevity against the levity and evanesce
was joined by another disciple of Izaak 
years, it was you who brought me to Engl
or the strong fortress-walls which had l
eminded of the old Sunday night when the
ould despatch letters in proof of his sa
 about him in skilful manner, he bestowe
VI. Triumph
s, and having the expression of prisoner
affold.
rshy moisture of many low grounds, sprin
 that the fact was exactly the reverse--
els came up the narrow street, and rumbl
d a few shook their fingers at him as an
r doubted until within this hour or two,
rge of an escort which the disturbed sta
ntal circumstance, that the mature Jerry
"I do not show the soldiers that I recog
"May I ask the cause?"
at liberality to old customers who had f
them?"
s guesses were made what the name could 
 chair: "what he has said of Ma'amselle 
od before her when she lifted up the eye
nd raised her eyebrows by the breadth of
all going direct to Heaven, we were all 
 hay. That weapon was a gentleman's. In 
o mingle with theirs to-morrow was alrea
g been anathematised by Saint Antoine, a
ce around him."
hateau, keeping its solitary state apart
eather, if I were not prepared to submit
er before the storm broke; the wonderful
ope _you_ are pretty well!" She also bes
The latent uneasiness in Darnay's mind w
ly keep anything going, for ever and eve
e, Mr. Lorry, or with any companion?"
ld think and speak, count One.
 did that work; and even the old haggard
 him into the courtyard.
 out of his heart for a merciful conside
sible calling.
ave been conscious this day and hour, in
fter observing these operations. They ag
; but, these were few. The great majorit
danced in public on the slightest provoc
truck two, she was there, and at four sh
 again, and he shivered through his fram
and be sure that his business is honest,
"She was mightily pleased to have your m
 of court."
*****
ne black suit, to justify the holder in 
ld leave no doubt that he had habitually
utenberg Literary Archive Foundation and
His removal, to make way for other accus
on with the Defarges; and tried them on 
?"
erly exhausted itself, and worn out Heav
" said Barsad. "Lift him, and come away!
 which he fell back in amazement.
look and listen, in the manner of the pe
The five had had, it is true, no audienc
ld hope that the worst was over."
nothing in it better than the faithful s
s narrowing around him. I glanced about 
ulty of taking Miss Pross in it had much
w it, and have heard my father say so. S
 a funeral passed Tellson's. Naturally, 
It was the rush and roar of rain that he
aid, warmly, "You have mentioned that be
ttle thinking what it had been doing nea
 was the abrupt inquiry that made him st
o wide apart and differing, have come to
d off their hats to Madame Defarge, with
us consideration, "I think we had best n
y was never the way to age. Enough of me
 when that dangling figure was hauled up
strict man of business.
ublican French government, was formerly 
In the first fright and horror of her si
inds.
ooms or passages. Over the chair they ha
if it is now--his brother took her away-
hat he shook in his wooden shoes wheneve
e Doctor. "I salute you, citizen." This 
There had been earlier drinking than usu
e Country; which did very often disinher
 wife. One of the frenzied aspirations o
ven saw himself in the illusion with som
 work and her little song, "we never hea
ore him.
h the steps had gone; but, echoes of oth
 when he came back to the garret.
 fifty like it as they too were to be a 
The Sheep of the prisons turned from him
ce; that, into wounds which will be made
om the watchful police such heads of inf
ive the Republic!"
When he had gone out into the next room,
u, his old domestic, had the charge of h
ay stood leaning on it, talking with him
on the topmost stair, was advised to lay
sect them." He added in his inward and p
haired doll!"
"Monseigneur, it is true. I had the hono
burial-places of this city through which
fined alone, but was mixed with the gene
art I know better--I shall never forget 
urned to Darnay:
t were Lucie's birds, and flowers, and b
 me, or than I am to them?
He was not long in discovering that it w
"I would ask you, dearest, to be very ge
g ingenious experiments, brought him oth
m to the lamp!"
cross the water there; for instance, the
o-day, it might awaken suspicion."
hronically drunk, and carrying his muske
cial doors by which the criminals got th
e, "withdraws; all the village whispers 
hing eyes, as if it throttled a foe.
than ourselves."
lf," said Charles Darnay, somewhat restl
 saddened to see that there were tears i
o bursting!"
ne at www.gutenberg.org
per, seized him--would have torn him out
ld forth as from a pulpit--"and let my w
 perspective-glass. I pledge you, but I 
The corner being out of the way of the i
e Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Fou
ill you never understand that I am incor
slight one, forced upon the prisoner in 
's hand, as he stood victorious and prou
 procession of negro cupids. As if _they
 wide.
y, "I'll have this out with you. You've 
 South, along the night-enshrouded roads
It was such a curious corner in its acou
ou rather than in one of their own horse
 with an air of gossiping gallantry, lea
ght gleamed through the chinks in the wa
who were brought there to have their arm
oud and high, and, on the weather-beaten
ood sir," said Mr. Lorry, mildly tapping
o the pleasure of seeing Monsieur and Ma
long before I can."
re unequal to the task I have set myself
owly and heavily the day lagged on with 
"Oh! If _that_ was beginning it--" said 
nearest it! Something of the awfulness, 
"And so do I. I heard the fall of the ax
s no passive belief, but an active weapo
nd so manfully, Charles Darnay, that I t
d neither his place nor his attitude, ev
d said to him, whether he knew that he w
nothing more.
tor Manette's consulting-room, and to be
f disposed to object to the loving littl
 have been used to see, since we were as
 time comes, let loose a tiger and a dev
ed ribbons; also, with the standard insc
g a painter whom Doctor Manette had empl
one long accustomed to obey under coerci
stion:
p, and sit by, careless. And I could not
ve rendered back its reflections, as the
in danger of fainting from exhaustion; n
She timidly laid her hand on his dear br
to yield to such emotions. His lonely da
ok and held out his hand.
anette had employed to add to the list t
After a gloomy silence, the first Jacque
As he said the words he looked down, wit
pon them to strip them of their feathers
ut it never moved. The phantom that my m
Everybody present, except the one wigged
XVI. Still Knitting
"Drop it then," said Mr. Cruncher; "I wo
ed, and after his recovery, I find it di
trious, excellent, and so forth, had in 
eat hope. As it pleased Heaven in its me
ith his blue cap pointing out the chain 
"At that time--I may ask, at what time, 
Lucie had, by that time, fallen into a s
"You have no time to ask me why I bring 
--nothing--startles you! _You_, your fat
en's name why should you kneel to me!"
hauling up men by those ropes and pulley
on the occasion in question?"
have business here."
is few witnesses, and Mr. Cruncher had n
s you have it now, till you see me again
Her golden hair, which she wore in long 
, and stood alone--blinded with smoke.
r, Young Jerry in his closet was awakene
y. Provide somebody to take care of you.
tely rolled down several ferocious count
er's time, we did a world of wrong, inju
wave, depth on depth, and overflowed the
mined. That, he seemed on the point of b
he crowd gradually melted away, and perh
 injunctions, obeyed them. Mr. Cruncher 
eed,' or you'll fidget me to death," sai
ain enfolded the Defarges in his dusky w
reat service you rendered me that day?"
one: in effect, stating all the circumst
"Madame Defarge, surely!" said Mr. Lorry
now it to be hopeless, I should know it 
"Hah!" muttered Defarge.
 the tremendous wrong and suffering whic
 odds and ends upon the ground. There is
it, and--in short, my meaning is everyth
 mind to that degree that he was fain, s
e third, changingly speckled by the rust
all the men in power, are very friendly 
 what was very hard, Mr. Lorry shook his
tent, on one knee behind them, with his 
turn straight to the Conciergerie, and w
ion for them both, I have spoken. The co
ow companions and low habits that I scor
gress. She was absolutely without pity. 
ory, whipping-post, and branding-iron, s
tive accompaniment, not long enough, or 
 light, and the eyes of the stone faces 
ep her courage up? Hark! There's the rol
high melancholy square of buildings mark
aspect.
that I can do here. I hoped to have left
d handsomest of women. Her darling was a
discovered, what if she were stopped at 
sband, that unborn child was their child
"So attentively, and with so much confid
 register of Madame Defarge."
cious hours of the night, when delay was
"Do you often go to see him--"
"I have been in the streets from the fir
r a little while. I saw her pass me on t
ught herself of the consequences of what
to the jostlement of all weaker people, 
rties to the full-bodied wine and the li
edeemed, he had saved Charles. Let them 
ked into a gridiron-pattern by fingers, 
 crowd in the afternoon, still with her 
ust into his face by hundreds of hands; 
 the bars of a lofty iron cage, bloody a
opyright holder, your use and distributi
e was hauled up forty feet above the fou
ss."
apidly swallowing France; but, his morni
--except wine like this--nor I for it. S
 were fast decomposing into rags again. 
shing condition, save tools and weapons;
ad. Citizen Gabelle was called to confir
she looked at the figure.
f me, and unconscious of me. I have cast
"But when it is ready, it takes place, a
ed to and fro in his loose chamber-robe,
ination to one side; "there you really g
hink she is--" As he hesitated, her fath
 confused way, like the presence of pain
l thoroughfare, by a small, dim, crooked
ity.
ere would be no occasion to send somebod
It is very difficult to begin."
 return or destroy all copies of Project
c obstinacy with a weak rattle in its th
ette, for you would have reclaimed me, i
 As he said these words with his eyes fi
aye."
n the hearth, and, peering up the chimne
ght them together. At first, they were a
lone under the plane-tree.
 the sky rests upon it!"
on to this butcherly mob, I wonder he is
ge carried under her rough robe. Careles
 tall man with his arms up, crying, "Dea
ately bred--that the inversion of all ex
s she opened swiftly, and looked in.
the mill that grinds young people old; t
no means new to his own mind, had been h
 on the crag was not so dominant as of y
lating resistance. That he had watched t
 quench it, no functionary, by any stret
rrow! If I, as a honest tradesman, succe
glish lady, and knows no French."
, as on the men and women who cultivated
vate topics of uneasiness. They seemed t
 was the acquittal pronounced, than tear
ed no mention of it to my letter. I seal
pite of his utmost tergiversation and tr
towards the door of the room from which 
As if his memory were impaired, or his f
erg-tm License as specified in paragraph
estminster Hall; to-day, taking the life
e lightning? Tell me."
ton, with his right hand in his breast, 
 all that was dear on earth behind him, 
ion they had passed, and, though red wit
 any part of it."
the return he had made her, he was recom
"Is he alone?" the latter whispered.
ything that was a great anxiety with the
raordinary revival of the train of thoug
 occasion to add that he was the most ar
recalled. But it may be soon recalled, a
ted that the letters were not initials, 
"I hear, messieurs."
urned, and made the voyage with me."
now of her danger as involving her child
lying side by side in their last earthly
ierce figures trudged away, East, West, 
usand, Jacques Two Thousand, Jacques Fiv
Both her hearers derived a horrible enjo
to whom you paid the fee as set forth in
 and struck at, and stifled by the bunch
some articles of state affairs and state
no pity for him were touched by her; and
d from the invention of a popular game, 
t.
"I send it to her by you. I kiss her by 
aside, combed back his hair, and tied it
y, mindful of foot-pads, always retained
"Apparently the Citizen-Doctor is not in
t him lying on his back, with his rusty 
stair, scrambled into bed with him, and 
at once, was tearing from house to house
arles!"
 at a long table, reading and writing, k
if those shoes are not done to-night?"
named.
f a window, and she had a light shining 
 ten more heads are worth having. The Gu
 of wrong, injuring every human creature
self, and her old directress and compani
at which he was evidently making), and s
ood (suddenly of some value, after many 
rance. In both countries it was clearer 
zingly good jackal, and that he rendered
ne who knew the city well, to find his h
and sufficient cause, how came he, Jarvi
e occasionally dilated and contracted by
ented it before him in an aspect that wo
laws regulating charities and charitable
 is a private visit to yourself, Mr. Lor
d began to pin her rose in her head-dres
urself, how could my happiness be perfec
 who doffed his blue cap to the company,
he paper public, with the other captured
that after abandoning his worldly goods 
othing but a little coffee, ate some bre
Man?"
 hair that had mingled with the poor sho
 was put to Death; the unlawful opener o
osition to 'em. If I had had any but a u
 no energy and purpose. Look at me."
the prisoner before them, though young i
d the spy, casting a reproachful look at
 recalled. He had shown strong internal 
heir own iron bars proper, and the heavy
thoughts towards the dangerous ground of
latter, the basket. Every afternoon at a
r. I follow. His arms are swelled becaus
t awoke gradually and surely. First, the
irtue, of every responsible creature on 
g, "that I will hear no disrespectful wo
n by its subject."
 the court, stopped the dialogue. Presen
ir chairs, or lingering up and down the 
 sweep over a hill-side on a wild bright
always do me credit. So I have made up m
 a great stillness, and that stillness s
he nose, beautifully formed otherwise, w
t hand, only while he poured his liquor 
idge of light appeared to span the air b
g wildly about, and the sea did what it 
"I don't wonder at it; it's not so long 
cing bread-and-butter nonsense. It's new
ewed him in the present and the past, "t
to the Doctor, and opened the window and
they flop, their floppings goes in favou
, hot resin, wax, and sulphur; finally, 
ine, who had no ear for music."
the uncertainty you leave me in at this 
de. To whom, likewise, the shadows of th
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web p
t all secret men are men soon terrified,
e."
--business that must be done. Now if thi
olomon John? She calls you Solomon, and 
er the clouds of the North, in fell and 
ools upon my shoulder, eating my morsel 
 weep for it! If you touch, in touching 
egan to be ghostly in the light, and the
The man cries, "Down, Evremonde! To the 
re all bloody and sweaty, and all awry w
itness, when the Judge looked up from hi
 favourite, specially, to their longing 
iss Pross passed the body as far from it
ner, who had walked to and fro at La For
d, at Tellson's, with such of their valu
 they sat upon their horses outside the 
t as great a name in history as George t
ut from which he travelled back some doz
r of the wine-shop had stood outside it,
he sank into a lethargy, and lay like th
re is monsieur, who knows a well-made sh
reet in a purposeless way, that was high
hat you might have it in your power, if 
. Haunted in a most ghastly manner that 
hted near the Saint's boundaries, were p
k.
boy, sir, to half a dozen old codgers he
ssessed of a power over one of the keepe
ed in the echoing corner, until her litt
room opened, and he came out with Charle
"In that more peaceful state, I have ima
ours from the time when I first saw her.
 go ill before the Tribunal, will not sa
"
, whom I never saw--so long dead--"
 him dreadful, he darted out into the ro
nces, adequately to heed what she observ
"You are going out to-night?" asked his 
s the door, and his face towards the win
her he can under any circumstances recon
nd then the knuckles of the left hand in
uperior mankind of the blood of Monseign
quil. To fail in submission to the autho
rry to have Miss Pross in with her work,
uis leaned back in his seat, and was jus
 Jerry. "Barbarous!"
 than useless to seek to know whether he
d a great deal. Nor is that all; my hous
Within a hundred miles, and in the light
The dread tribunal of five Judges, Publi
y, delighted to be able to make another 
out into the roadway to avoid dark alley
r Miss Pross. I arrived at Mr. Lorry's, 
 your nonsensical language; but I would 
blood into his face, brightened his glan
e live in, when it _is_ possible, and wh
ce, moreover, in the moral attribute tha
.
and take care of his mother; don't blow 
r?"
"I bring you a request from her."
ve died of two.
 and yet as if to express that she bore 
near it, he should be crushed under the 
1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access t
last sediment of the human stew that had
 him through the body, and said,
arkening street, and traced the thought 
ell me on your marriage morning. Do you 
ng word. I will never refer to it again.
 stream absorbed it, and carried it on t
 heavily away in the thief-and-rascal cr
s joined, and sipped, or tried to help w
. There were tears in his voice too, as 
expression, under an old cocked-hat like
ould admonish him to pull up the window,
in he had seen was running after him; an
s as still as Death."
ack and paused a moment, spoke, through 
tiously secreted their watches and purse
rers' warehouses for security; the highw
at water.
that this was highly degrading to the fa
 told Lucie so.--What is that noise?" Hi
ed at the figure before him, without fir
me in town?"
me. I have cast up the years of her age,
sent me to some fortress indefinitely."
ne, he thought in the same wandering way
 own desolate heart to it--outwatched th
ears hence, could have been shown to him
g, and hidden it away to keep it from th
g, sometimes with the little one, someti
im. What I have left to call my own--it 
his mind with him from that latter repet
ed, "Enter there! Come in!" and the Spy 
romise from me. Tell me what it is."
nder the admiring Heavens. Deep would ha
tures that approached them, had dammed i
st, and the inquiring and attentive expr
s son to pursue his ostensible calling.
s, my dear, that it should be so. You, d
 doom as certainly as the prisoner's, an
hat in that sharp fire, he had slowly fo
 strong relief, removed beauties of arch
 when he did, and not sooner?
wing one or two of the soldiery there, a
 and bit the feather of a pen.
 are about it," suggested Carton.
lson's London house, they hid him somewh
agree to abide by all the terms of this 
t prisoner, in danger of death, to his j
ngland as a higher teacher of the French
For a moment, he held the fair face from
moved), until they met the same fate. Cu
se, on unfavourable Sundays, he was accu
himself at Miss Pross's service. He had 
and history, as should serve him for an 
The scene was Mr. Cruncher's private lod
turned this way, must have trod on these
brief, and the jury did not even turn to
gh the street, the village was illuminat
 of so strong a piscatory flavour that o
It is a pretty sight!"
Checking the postmaster, who was for tur
ility?"
"Would he remember what took place in th
upon the arms of his chair, and looked u
the banking-house air. Your lighter boxe
GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Pro
aid Miss Pross, striving to dry her eyes
ummer night rose all around him, and ros
ck of his raised blunderbuss, his left a
 no hope. I well understand that, even i
ining on him, so that when the boy got t
een an attack upon the prisons, that all
"Do you call the whole reckoning?" said 
sh smear about the mouth; and one tall j
w," cries The Vengeance, petulantly. "Th
th the restless hand and the craving air
e at length began, "for some year and a 
ouble tides that night, and the night be
 windows, and looked out into the heavy 
posite to him, that this gaoler was so u
myself, I shall always be, towards you, 
to no good account for yourself, Mr. Car
"What do you mean? Ten o'clock at night?
anette, I love your daughter fondly, dea
distasteful to him, and had left his cou
he is not by. I would ask you to believe
her betook himself to his boot-cleaning 
 lead, examined the patriot: John Barsad
as yet time to ward off the impending ve
ny four-footed inmate of a menagerie. To
bed, until he rose above the surface, wi
ved from the same grip in the summer--an
 if anything prevented him from enjoying
oes, to the time when I found myself liv
ain, as if it were the face of the cruel
that was ever spoken between me and thos
ht.
 the first time he felt that in that sha
ght and strong towards it. He left his t
 general were settled for ever.
t had waited through about two hundred y
shoulder, and hand to shoulder, hurried 
his Doctor with any sensibility. I must 
yes opened wide, and his right hand rais
ell, that the very same people, carried 
and the heavy disappointment of his seco
, to whom Defarge presented "The Emigran
 it, the tumbrils begin to discharge the
ominable noise? Is it his child?"
e paper, once more.
instead, its being escorted to its desti
 these. Every town-gate and village taxi
of regeneration.
oble name, I supplicate you, Monsieur he
sent Marquis. But he lives unknown in En
to rule, time and tide waited for no man
"I am frightfully confused regarding tim
Darnay set at liberty, or at least to ge
an object without having some cause to b
, general-light-job you, till your heels
"I have already said, that for my prospe
 of their joint lives on his mind. It wa
Rather wishing his modest adjective away
made 'em, is enough to bring tears into 
rd one thousand seven hundred and sevent
ter to the wine-shop door, had been sudd
es, you shall say that we have sent him 
a manifest sense of power enthroned on t
be, it must be, I'll swear it's there."
on hard to answer, Mr. Jarvis Lorry with
 plunge into it upon which Monsieur Gabe
 of the prison on the crag, and never to
 the actual Bastille thrown upon him by 
pecially young. The resemblance between 
little citizen," said Madame Defarge, st
tary or proprietary form, including any 
comply with the terms of this agreement 
ging pleasantly in many an airy steeple 
ttracted his attention. Looking that way
ns."
"I am glad you have so much of the Engli
could not restrain himself from speaking
ender me a little help?"
 get taken up, but so much mud got taken
 the bed, had drawn the end of the scarf
As I turned my eyes to the elder brother
 startled him.
him, "I really don't know what you have 
vered up their tracks with a determinati
y.
nd in the line of the mouth, and the lin
wards resident in Paris, write this mela
rawl it up for him, however, who had squ
way, and her dark hair looked rich under
ercise any power that you possess, again
have watched the lamplighter, in their i
"Why?"
ck built.
vilry that ever was known, abandoned his
The entrance of the Judge, and a consequ
and that they are almost black to my sig
ison, and that the foreign ambassadors h
ul. Although Miss Pross, through her lon
octors' wives don't flop--catch 'em at i
ll not be able to see him, my poor child
d.
With a wild rattle and clatter, and an i
, than the crowd of ladies of quality an
g action. "Nothing that we do, is done i
ooter's Hill, as he stood on his own par
The sort of interest with which this man
 smile.
 mother, but her children had a strange 
ated.
of men carried on the business gravely. 
ous business."
ost looked, like accomplices in a horrib
nty-five, lumbering up Shooter's Hill, a
 stopped by a low sound of knocking.
so nimble and expert, as in the dusk of 
 in our happiness, and how weak he is in
r when the House pervaded the air. He sh
"She is."
ting trim at two o'clock in the afternoo
"In England, for example?"
he white riding-coat and top-boots, then
now him to be--he would have been consci
icance, as is often the way with his tri
ce proscribed, for that they had used th
e door, and there expounded her further 
 tend and comfort him in our cottage--ou
ould raise his thoughts much higher, and
his saw.
IES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INC
e object in hand being to show that the 
 which this man was stared and breathed 
 under his old sufferings and aggravated
ey flashed at more convenient places of 
mpulses towards generosity and mercy, or
"Granted. Thank you. Well, Mr. Stryver, 
ery fast. As I stood aside to let that c
 and a rattle, and the dismal place was 
re, as long as they could bear it. By de
But for the latter inconvenience, the ca
 of subornation in those characters than
housand like them, came to pass in and c
a watery and clouded moon, nimbly scalin
n he had spoken, was like recalling some
ngs in the streets; and, although it is 
d that it had never been done.
One year and three months. During all th
rms of the Project Gutenberg-tm License.
tionary, "I am going to send you on to P
ner?
e not afraid?"
l link, that they had once looked in at 
 have their arms bound. Some were standi
led, until the two tall candles on the t
now, and used as a kind of armoury, my l
tronic work, or any part of this electro
self by many passages had not ceased, wh
mpart culinary mysteries to her. From th
"She was a good, compassionate lady, and
her?"
eceive them too much."
wels from his head, which had been steam
ways looking straight before him.
nvey to him the means of anticipating th
That might not be so long as the Marquis
ent and heated working of his heart, tha
nette, turning to him after an uneasy pa
"There. Confound it! There," said Solomo
g Literary Archive Foundation
, otherwise than as it has a tendency to
t http://www.pglaf.org.
He looked abstractedly from one to anoth
1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenbe
d, in the morning stillness. He walked b
 would seem to have been an unusually th
" returned that gentleman, shaking his h
ds. The sawyer himself did not participa
"I play my Ace, Denunciation of Mr. Bars
ess shining on his cheek. "Come in, come
"The boy's eyes had slowly moved to him 
"Well, then," said Defarge, as if a thou
anged the little household as exactly as
er that day there, and you were among th
His touch still lingered on her father's
wo sides to it. There might be medical d
 and the old are left behind. We are thr
 one way as another. Drop it altogether.
ou talk of desperation. We are all despe
ght.
g without them: and for accomplishing ma
"Hold then! True!" muttered her husband.
inhabited by a great number of people. I
ver his shoulder.
 they had all been united in their Engli
 was already calling at the door when he
ge waiting in the open street, he droppe
y streets--much dirtier than usual, for 
nnected with fear: he was conscious of n
n them with his hammer, and the crowd gr
e done for me?"
ameful rights, these Nobles, in the mode
vable close to him when he was got near 
ge to the turnkey.
.
 and looked around, he saw in his small 
 referable; it is probable, to a blendin
denly as they had broken out. The man wh
r were perfectly dressed. If the Day of 
at the aspect of affairs was very alarmi
itic; I do it on principle. And look at 
er's saying grace with particular animos
hen you sat at your mother's knee, seem 
 and always speaks to the girl. Here and
 worked out and replaced, I find a writt
 employment, Mr. Lorry flattened his fla
fidence. But my husband has his weakness
en who is one of the Jury, directed by a
wild suspicions of plots in the prisons,
f turned from the prisoner, lounging wit
 to have gone to execution, had cut as h
e before, as Mr. Lorry's cup-bearer; and
 confident if he had seen this illustrat
"What is this?"
the same man. We had that man before us 
ight days, nine days.
s," returned madame; "and what the tongu
as she moved it at her feet behind the c
usion over the handle of his saw.
As the road-mender plied his dusty labou
him. That is all I know."
, and asked the prisoner whether it was 
"I have no choice," said Charles Darnay.
tte has any theory of his own, preserved
med to contrast his present cheerfulness
In a building at the back, attainable by
thing, involving the mere little innocen
 and the other pressed upon it. She had 
e of glass in it might be counted as one
our sorrow more, if you were my father. 
ed.  Of course, we hope that you will su
ood staring at them, they asked him no q
and ninety-two was come, and Monseigneur
tled its green leaves, church-organs cla
ps Die Out For Ever
case wholly to him, this little citizen 
 Opera had far more influence with him i
emn asseveration that he already conside
ry, and of resort to this third course b
d not often make mistakes against hersel
r shop, better than most others in its a
ces, Monsieur Orleans, and the rest, to 
"I have observed his daughter," repeated
 but the parting was soon over. It was t
brought me in?"
u have seen him to-day; you have observe
e postmaster, shrugging his shoulders; "
red and jerked, scores at a time, over t
estored to her from the world beyond thi
le of the night, and then rode forward a
oor husband. You will do him no harm. Yo
east, slipped off his great wooden shoes
from the knowledge of Lucie was so well 
 of business. I have a business charge t
an hour or so of the time of closing.
our attention, Doctor?'
Much interested and agitated, Mr. Lorry 
 "Oh dear you, sir? What may your meanin
is no one there."
the prisoner to take the handy fellow as
 me, my dead baby and my withered father
e to see you. We have been counting on y
 of the four walls, before going out, a 
 Hundreds of people. In the arrangements
ands to his mouth nevertheless, and voci
er shoulder.
 forehead, as Sydney Carton and the spy 
 to what is dearer to you than life, not
ild ride unreal, not the least was the s
tenants--serfs--what you will--he will b
himself.
He opened his mouth as wide as he could,
uld find or make, did not allow his baff
ked down.
 a large stone courtyard before it, and 
lowing out into the adjacent streets, an
urried packing, there are odds and ends 
 knowing where to forward it, and that i
with Project Gutenberg-tm.
It was so clearly beyond hope to reason 
had arrived at the peroration of his dis
 intervals, under every difficulty. I de
w does this relapse come about? Is there
 the man.
tleman on the ear.
tockings." At the gallows and the wheel-
 and more good-humoured laugh, "don't _y
lowly into a sitting posture. "Sydney, I
me here looking after her," said Miss Pr
always hear those coming. They came, and
g Number Three: his fingers ever wanderi
his son lay down too, and fell asleep ag
o bed."
-And burn Monsieur my nephew in his bed,
ng ago."
und.
 of the previous night, running home thr
ready in a quarter of an hour."
eter to explain the meaning of these cre
derful to see. No garret, no shoemaking,
common rooms and corridors would be deli
 when he had revealed his own desolate h
getable substitutes for wheat. On inanim
ht broke away the earth upon it, and cam
"Come, then, my children," said Barsad. 
"Try them again. The hours between this 
her away; in spite of what I know she mu
ent for itself, another brighter genius 
 rushed to his heart. The buzz of the gr
They said of him, about the city that ni
e gives on the little courtyard close to
They were her husband's words, as he hel
y replied, "No, no, no. Surely not. To r
state promotion, and, therefore, loud on
h prostrated before by mankind--always e
e sun, both ever tending to the plains b
beyond the summit of that hill above the
nto a Barmecide room, that always had a 
And off _her_ head comes! Now, a child. 
is stage of the proceedings it was produ
s if he were a fellow-creature.
himself.
I interfere with Mrs. Cruncher's floppin
icked and distracted had the Revolution 
el!), it is a curious thing that she is 
 his seat and asked (in very indifferent
He must go to Paris.
th a little oath or so added, and yet it
ion, was all gone together. Royalty was 
There were in the cell, a chair, a table
plating cards:
lace in his favour. A trying suspense, t
e," said the prisoner. "All things have 
erpetuating the system under which I hav
een most abundant were raked into a grid
s in a stage, but retarded his progress 
hird day of her being there, he noticed 
n's Bank. He had a healthy colour in his
 off.
steps, got past the two ancient cashiers
The citizen here indicated nodded his he
"It must be an immense satisfaction!"
n which the peaches ripened in their sea
"I do not doubt it," answered Mr. Lorry.
u--"
 was drawing to an end, it came at last 
unning home through darkness and solitud
rter, and doubtless was influential ther
 wasted, drunken, poor creature of misus
ss.
lage were at the fountain, standing abou
reputable look, but so diminished the st
ender of roads, who looked sixty.
 felt his own hand turn cold in the hand
t to be only a plated one. He had known 
ooking that way, Mr. Cruncher made out t
p my mind about it."
 had heard them, alone at the bedside, s
e, blade upwards, with its point in the 
when all these things are to be answered
wonder at it. Such a present of plate as
"If it is--" Defarge began, and stopped.
orse prisons, before now."
the dear old year one thousand seven hun
y father was so reduced that I was afrai
passed a hand across his bearded chin, a
tant corners looked up with looks of rem
The lady in question, whose rooted convi
t he was supposed to uphold, he had acte
for our quarter. There may be many more,
tear you to pieces, but I will have you 
ir way on foot through the black mud and
ere accused of?"
en engaged, she would not have pitied he
o authority, had remarked that carriages
nd kissed his cheek and his hand.
 by people who agree to be bound by the 
th behind him, and floated away for the 
"Oh dear me!" cried Mr. Lorry, rubbing h
urishes. She acknowledged their homage b
inter light from cellars, moved away, to
 as such with the young lady. The young 
re are the tumbrils! And Evremonde will 
The young gentleman uttered this exultan
ng each other and clutching children out
t insupportable. Through such an atmosph
he gaolers of the various prisons to the
rt to identify, do copyright research on
ful of that dark hair upon your head, if
accordance with it, and she had no suspi
so unreasonable! Some of us at Tellson's
ght to bear upon it. If you should then 
patronage of the most offensive quality 
The spy would have been no spy if he had
ure too, or a great Stilton cheese, came
ruggle you made of old. We know, now wha
d may find it there, when I and my sorro
e had glimpses of buried treasure and ot
her figure and the dress she had torn. I
 distributed--so were cartridges, powder
xpected, and he heard the gate clash aga
alike. Mr. Cruncher made the observation
 the Bailey."
her such things are possible, and not on
o hold, he laid the knuckles of the righ
 a mail journey from London in winter wa
 trotting on ahead into the dull distanc
nformation against these people at my Se
tain "Defects," such as, but not limited
ry stood looking about him, the very cha
ny fashion of speech. Indeed, when I say
disfigured every human creature in atten
ent down, with some fellow-plotter untra
other at her own age, sees and loves you
"I said, couldn't you describe the kind 
rself down and praying agin me?"
orruption, and dissimulation, was all go
 knowing what I knew from the boy. He wa
 enough that, rooted in the woods of Fra
iley spies, and wreaking vengeance on th
 like one thinking aloud.
 darkness, but all glittering with light
r, "but this beats everything."
, like a Harlequin at home. At first, he
Wouldn't her child?"
tle counters, where the oldest of men ma
which the Cross was discarded, and it wa
e took his seat beside the driver.
 hand drawn through his arm.
 and at length said:
 own horse, but a loose line was attache
self mistaken, it might be painful to Do
hat must follow all storms--emblem to hu
to hope is not probable."
o see her. Either tell her that I demand
e being closed with a jar and a rattle, 
ssed me some pieces of money; then struc
"I don't mean that. I mean I am a man of
hich had become so common and material, 
. He looked at them, and saw in them, wi
ocking figure before the dying embers, a
 the furthest confines of the crowd. Def
I throw up. I confess that we were so un
Mr. Lorry adjusted his little wig at bot
t down again.
nce over the hill. In the glow, the wate
large jaw and a queen with a plain face,
s lips, he did not part from him then. H
 as he read it. "Hi! hi! hi!"
rom that exclusive inner circle to its o
I am so ignorant. Am I to kiss you now? 
r rain of tears, and then it was, "Take 
 writer, his hand slowly and softly move
usly shaking his head, with his cruel fi
 an injured revolutionary susceptibility
" said Defarge. "Quick!"
much too much the way of native British 
re in the raging flood once more.
terest for the establishment of the Roya
 jerks."
nd who my mother was, and who my father,
wing Mr. Lorry as the intimate friend of
that he sometimes furtively looked up wi
 fold her in his arms.
ul head between his face and the brawlin
hing. And, sir, if business imposes its 
there when the first beams of the sun br
It will suit you to a marvel."
opened a little further, and secured at 
's shock had killed it. Whether it was a
nt."
carriage. That fountain suggested the Pa
and stood upright. And then they began t
, to dig and delve; men and women there,
 and closer to the end, I travel in the 
 lamp, and they spoke very low, and I di
"I, Alexandre Manette, unfortunate physi
even in the year one thousand seven hund
t came at last to their hastily dividing
ll," he added to himself, before he rang
conscious inconsistency, "that the worth
m, but he knew it to be another iron doo
"For gracious sake, don't talk about Lib
id not, for they continued to cry "No!" 
 the holder in growing rather livid as h
 rested, as often as if he had fifty of 
this man stood still on his way across a
ost, all wondering and amazed, as if the
ts, and turning on the worm-eaten stool 
oes of her child's tread came, and those
te in it but blood. The narrative called
nd were crowded on the other side of the
 towards the fatal spot, "where they res
ng face. "Shall I do well, in the mean t
e nephew, "for anything I know, you may 
 found it imperative on him to get up, a
he mender of roads worked, solitary, in 
Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often cr
hers whom it is better not to name. I wi
em were dark, repressed, and revengeful,
 help. Happily, she bethought herself of
the written paper. "As if I was not alre
the time could achieve, were, in truth, 
hing below the surface, that he shook in
m killed with grass in his mouth. Once, 
ut her knife under her arm, and clapped 
"Shall we go home, my father?"
Saint Antoine, the husband and wife rema
re opened on the mist and rain, on the m
so as the dining-room; the third, changi
 moments after that, a young woman, with
her father, mournfully. "I have thought 
 trampled under foot.
ber, to which no one but her Ladybird ev
er hand, as if with an involuntary actio
 his own, and as to that business charge
He repeated what he had already said.
the fountain, that although condemned to
which caused them all to relapse into th
hoe up, and resumed his work.
s, at all events, attributable to some i
"Myself."
 bed in the Temple Court had known him m
ead on his hands. The Spy returned immed
All this was in a second. As the smoke c
, to get at the other. My memory is circ
iergerie, and will know to-morrow. You a
He was driven on, and other carriages ca
"Nothing."
recious child is safe in bed?"
l hope the best. Still, alive. Your fath
cle, pleasantly.
"I wish it, that I may the better deserv
nt of her quiet, pretty dress; "and so i
o tell you, Mr. Stryver," said Mr. Lorry
"To distinguish the brothers, I will cal
 her head down on the hard ground close 
een his eyes and the light, and the very
nkind--always excepting superior mankind
 that likeness too--as you have--but was
e to recognise the faces and know the pe
oft, and the rope broke, and they caught
 Three vied with each other in their fer
o the question, merely replied, "One mus
er in their fervent protestations that s
sed!"
 and her prey, and as such had no right 
 he would be so confident, having seen i
rienced rustic carver, but he had studie
"Heigh-ho-hum!" said Miss Pross, cheerfu
 to be peevish after my long day's bothe
the night before that, and a good many n
It was characteristic of this lady (as o
country had imposed upon him, and which 
m, he looked as if he were old; but when
"Here they are!" said Miss Pross, rising
sual night hum of the city, with now and
 to the rest, "Let her embrace him then;
The basin fell to the ground broken, and
ness of the deserted rooms, and of half-
That was all the writing. It was so much
uld be in effect the most desolate of Re
g in his--"
of horror; and that the air around her h
 he made shoes. * * * * Five paces by fo
 is the originator of the Project Gutenb
e, demanded to see me, and softly follow
ce of suspense and doubt. How much of th
piritual than her sister of the shield a
oject Gutenberg are removed.  Of course,
erous, you are prosperous," said Mr. Lor
and he awoke in the sombre morning, unco
ed. "Yes. I wonder you are not ashamed t
eye was raised. Among the men, not one. 
y freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm wo
basin, and a towel or two. Steeping the 
ally falling in large drops, and he show
s touch that gave Lucie a check. She sto
d a Refuge there? A Doctor?"
such purposes, they have to pay for it. 
ss before him, a mirage of honourable am
rest for the study of a living tongue sp
ties, by Charles Dickens
 the Guillotine.
raggling over the table, and a long wind
living, and in the next generation my pl
 dreary prison courtyard, he arrived at 
been dropped and broken, in the street. 
it was as well that the merits of the ca
 the same topics with the strongest assu
wise be light and happy!"
oking quietly at his nephew, with his sn
He had been apprised that the final hour
Then he began grumbling again:
arm and soften to, it warmed and softene
oat was bare for his greater ease. He ha
"Now, I told you so," said the spy, cast
ether in the courtyard. Four lights brok
in sorrow and despair.'
 not only carriage and horses to be seen
ead against my prison-walls. I have look
as long as the times held together, no m
k! Forbid it, miss! Wot I say, for-_bid_
"And the maker's name?" said Defarge.
free, rich and poor, bad and good, he us
oking expectantly at the sky in one dire
h a half complaining and half apologetic
ed it destroyed with the Bastille, when 
away. A pause of forgetfulness, and then
olden thread that bound them all togethe
 no more, Miss Manette. I have proved my
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
w? Let us look at his infamous name. D--
 and had been--oh! twenty years."
ife--in two senses," said his late clien
nd viewed the prospect, he would see som
her," said Jerry.
inaugurated the Long Vacation with a for
 grandeur. Hah!" And he took another gen
understanding, and bad's the best, you'l
e not ashamed to mention the name of Luc
"Oh father, father. What can this be! Hi
of everything in the rooms, from the lar
d taken as he came along, and dischargin
know whether he has been for years overl
ual work, nor had she read to him. She h
 ran out with streaming hair, urging one
the unfashionable babies close, and brou
rds the left cheek which imparts a sinis
erved, that I cannot undertake to say ev
 fellows closed round to look and listen
r's house had been first sequestrated, a
 aggravation of an originally bad offenc
"You will naturally be anxious to hear o
lar figures, stopped by no obstacle, ten
my head," thought Mr. Cruncher, amazed, 
ower that has brought us through the bar
ver existed, smiled upon their courtly p
s resorted to the Good Republican Brutus
undred and seventy-five conduct their Gr
radually dropped to the floor, and lay t
be a celestial witness.
 sir, and on the same occasion."
expectation, he would not have prospered
se within him that such dread experience
e, which lasted some three hours, he had
o so much good to us poor, will profit b
est is as good as another man's, I belie
The prisoner came forward directly.
 showing her, at length, the reasons tha
the knife struck home, the faces changed
When a name was called, its owner steppe
ng and passing, to that restless degree 
e man in it with their swords. The leadi
 and athirst, the two entered the wine-s
"See to it, Gabelle. Go on!"
.
It is.
g! How lightly I valued the obligation I
; I knew I could help Charles out of all
oners were brought singly, and by which 
But, in the ocean of faces where every f
" or other form.  Any alternate format m
to you, weep for it, weep for it! And if
 of impoverished French, who, tempted by
robing-room. Another person, who had not
near to one another as the two eyes of e
ked up for the purpose, and smeared over
 one of those darkly clustered houses en
was very alarming. An ominous crowd gath
. While you do it, let me take this ribb
ot lying on his head--they should all be
 there, to cut off little streams of win
"that I am incapable of forming any plan
 it would; and whosoever hung, fire burn
 dear Manette, might not the fear go wit
 only men there, unconnected with the Tr
y, up at the chateau.
ngeance added, with a laugh, "Yes, my fa
omain works in creating the Project Gute
e located in the United States, we do no
rime, and this woman (the inveteracy of 
t neighbourhood.
 denounced. It was obviously the weaknes
me?"
 Mr. Lorry could distinctly see), though
he next room (my bedroom), one fellow, t
t was the National Razor which shaved cl
hority. It was the elder who replied, 'S
presided in this dainty dress. And who a
n of having drawn his high wages, by bei
 this life."
ty and evanescence of the brisk fire. He
nd he no more thought of emerging from h
oo: a tenant of his. We were all tenants
ving face, and his fingers perpetually h
cines to be obtained in this lonely plac
and never stops. I tell thee it is alway
"Let us collect them together, in the mi
er, and had looked ominously at him as h
t a going to be blest out of house and h
ed its brains out, and then gathering th
 made, and silver to be chased, and like
now the value of money, you live hard, y
 a candle, went to a glass that hung aga
ull man of business, and you are a woman
"The crime for which I am imprisoned, Mo
-work!" Thus Defarge of the wine-shop, s
red to devote myself to your orders."
nshrouded roads, guided by the beacon th
Neither of them for a single moment rele
er, crossing the road, and obliterating 
 Thank ye. Now, come and take your place
, as he thus tried to anatomise his old 
in him for the sixty-three who had been 
tay the spirit of a fast-dying man.
ant, Ernest Defarge, a youth, up-stairs.
 Mr. Darnay, and for Miss Lucie, and--Mi
 King, in his wars against our said sere
e highly desirable to get to the end of.
t might still be; I am sure that you mig
l else was wall. On the third day of her
 had been a hundred thousand years away.
accomplished, it never can be done, it h
call that man?"
 a last "God bless you!" and left her.
 world to go over.
s and windows were thrown open, horses i
n; a third, presented the favoured napki
"Hush, hush!" the Spy entreats him, timi
a picture of mine, who had no eye for pi
-legs till I get you on the level," said
Cruncher through yourself--that wot my o
 tangle of shaggy wrapper, flapping hat,
It happened, that the action turned his 
ravaged Soho and the adjacent provinces,
sence. So much of what had happened in t
r. Lorry, picking his way over the well-
d day, wound off upon his finger.
em had come of any culpability of hers. 
orry, eagerly.
 a poor devil of a honest tradesman met 
oodshed, and assert the claims of mercy 
ure that it was not yours. You were alwa
mall donations ($1 to $5,000) are partic
eping his eyes fixed on the reader, Mada
e death of me. I shall be rendered Suspe
nstant to the heart of the concourse at 
e stopped.
loud buzz swept into the street as if th
n. Advocate. English. Which is he?"
their heads were together when he came b
er, and said:
 was soon swallowed up in the shadow of 
pped, because it would have been a bad t
"Forbid it," proceeded Mr. Cruncher, wit
ding alone here with your counterpart on
 an impossibility. Papers and precious m
rch behind the mail, beating his feet, a
tisfied of it."
he and Mr. Lorry were the only men there
er echoes resound as they would, the you
Her husband smoked at his door, looking 
e door of the Doctor's room and looking 
 to be exterminated, and the wife and ch
rpose."
d resonance of the human voice, that it 
nfide in me. Observe! Under those circum
 us?"
n mortally stricken. But, she uttered no
 for it. Some pitying hand may find it t
here the sun goes down!
 she sees and loves her mother at her ow
-hearted, loves you through your dreadfu
ehemence that nearly took him off his le
Where is it?"
de. That's well, friend Defarge. Come, n
er."
et always entreating and beseeching for 
ay not be right?"
get, would never prosper with him, Mr. L
. Heaven is my witness that I love her!"
Among these terrors, and the brood belon
"I begin to think I _am_ faint."
once been a mender of roads), cast a gla
 of the wreck of papers a table shone, w
d the man, clapping his hands to his mou
, shaking his head; "that's questions en
red out for the purpose, seemed to have 
e. Who and where is the false conspirato
the Marquis, the assurance of my dolorou
mean anything. But what is the matter! S
t."
 been extracted from the flints, and the
ternal embraces were bestowed upon the p
"It is all I could do," said Carton. "To
within the wine-shop had sprung to their
g them how the patriot, Barsad, was a hi
e countryman had made his breakfast. He 
grace as was visible in it, made it the 
 disposition to give up, and wither away
at the doors. The kennel, to make amends
From that time, in all weathers, she wai
had stood, for a minute or two, by the s
 the respectable and great house of Tell
called to life?"
at he squeezed the innocent Mr. Lorry cl
our lights broke out there, and moved aw
He lapsed away, even for minutes, ringin
 in a halo on a pillow round the worn fa
nights, whom the rising sun found hangin
, at a distance. It was a dark winter da
"Yes, my Lord."
, Mr. Barsad," said the former; "our arr
room, and to be debating these points ou
onviction he could scarcely have assumed
of hearts if he could have heard the ans
 a start. "What's that?"
Mr. Lorry moved in his chair, and cast a
"Jerry, if you wish to take something to
ch, the tax for the lord, tax local and 
ad been in his own coach and six, or his
c One and Indivisible, of Liberty, Equal
ut how do I know if he lies? I am not a 
 a doll at her mother's footstool, chatt
ney, under that worthy gentleman's prote
d his nails were of the same pale lead-c
al solemnity, additional slowness, and a
"The instruments of torture!"
ea did what it liked, and what it liked 
k upon his shoulder, lifted her a little
n which he left the house, Mr. Lorry wen
 and gentility hid its head in red night
 right elbow supported by her left hand,
s the carriage came up to her, rose quic
 was one of passionate grief; by turns s
 to the Guillotine.
"He will start upon his journey to-morro
opies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in 
 conversation.
"Ugh!" cried Mr. Lorry, rather relenting
y so dreadful, that the Doctor had cover
ds), cast a glance at the prison, pointe
at the shadows of the night were gone.
"I do ask it. Accept my cordial thanks."
 was plainly dressed in black, or very d
or what he had had, perplexedly counted 
s hand a week or two before Michaelmas T
a common barrier dropped across the road
 harvest, was as far out of his knowledg
 then the man who hungered, asked: "Is t
The coach lumbered on again, with heavie
vity. Hope has quite departed from my br
oment I come to you, take me in, and dri
apter IV     The Preparation      Chapte
nday evening as the sun was going to bed
into the flinty viands, and struck some 
tion, and went his way.
nor I for it. So we are not much alike i
able close to him; remained immovable cl
n.
"A-a-a-business, business!" he urged, wi
"Indeed, sir? That was before my time he
rms, and called the woman to assist me t
rd One struck away from him, without sur
The time was to come, when that wine too
again: not with any interest or curiosit
 it with his own, took a nimble spring u
woman.
ine o'clock, a man in a black dress rang
 I say just now?"
tock of wine smelt much stronger than it
"That is the fact."
 go to than I have ever known."
f than he has ever been, and even speaks
he women who had left on a door-step the
 And these here would be mine, if it wos
 or inflicting. The trade signs (and the
"Emigrant," said the functionary, "I am 
striving to live away from it by my own 
the Cupid, but he was still to be seen o
it can have few parallels, even in the t
turn until the morning of the fourth day
ch dreaded. They had already got the len
ried figures on the terrace; nor the boo
R USE THIS WORK
ears with great difficulty paid for her 
ow of death--were almost the only outspo
ll the men of this part of the country. 
d the rest.
ouses, in the wretched clothing that hun
iness. In the meantime, his son, whose h
.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
s likewise much commended.
re unbarred, and people came forth shive
character of evidence too often disfigur
rapidly diminishing the league or two of
long bright rays. And looking along them
se the sound of footsteps at her own ear
f and Lucie were reversed, yet only as t
y (trademark/copyright) agreement.  If y
iving him into his corner, whenever the 
or me. There is a curse on it, and on al
trongly in favour of the argument, that 
 is represented that he is not in strong
tipulations I am going to make, and exac
ides the Cook.
in his pocket.
ht is likely to do good. Enough; you are
e was a certain rugged air of fidelity a
 which he detected all around him, walke
eir backs, may have to do some day--work
er father's imprisonment, until he had h
 a great pile of houses, inhabited by a 
young gentlemen, by directing them to be
"You have no business to be incorrigible
ough they work unceasingly, work silentl
u to the death. Not to divide with Lucie
When this interchange of Christian name 
, safety, life, he would have hazarded f
ver in his mind, "is a branch of Scienti
 you bring to him, all the relief, all t
s, at night on kissing her father, she w
as a rarity--Monsieur Paris, as it was t
d the second follower of the gentle craf
ld make you happier, it would make me ve
ome back presently. Then, we will take h
y office, putting my head in great extra
s associated) is accessed, displayed, pe
ques Three. "Transparently!"
g it, when his door suddenly opened, and
"'Not dead,' said I; 'but like to die.'
p, from a distance, at the prison on the
istracting fancies, praying for himself 
ond staircase, which was a species of lo
ave such a worthless fellow, and a fello
," returned Darnay, "I beg your forgiven
n the weary miles of avenue by the waysi
pths were yet unfathomed and whose force
erfeit of timidity, Mr. Lorry?"
I'm grey at it, would think twice about 
that starers who had had no pity for him
More months, to the number of twelve, ha
. You know the accused to be the husband
oked ominous as to that; the uncle made 
 had fitted on the jury, inside out; sho
r which way to turn. There is such an un
n imagine, every one of whom had his hea
 speak to him, and fell at his feet.
he dearest part of herself to her; by th
ot in shadow so remote but that you coul
 no one beyond ourselves can decipher it
e, though he were dead, yet shall he liv
But, this was not the change on the vill
self, and gave the required information,
D'ye hear?"
 and his daughter an orphan; that was in
 I had never seen it break out, until I 
there now?" asked Mr. Lorry.
at his wife, his wife only looking from 
air in it. He was quiet and attentive; w
-shop, which was closed (for it was midn
ight fixed attention, though it included
ith any softer feeling than a fierce des
ributed to anyone in the United States w
 pale, with his long brown hair, all unt
he first charge of his life to bestow, w
d Bank, into the misty air of Fleet-stre
e that the best part of it might still b
ee me. Where is the man who was here? Tu
rest in her bosom.
r and trembling, that that terrible woma
er breast: a sight so touching, yet so t
so did varieties of sunken cheek, cadave
ined tiger:--looked like some enchanted 
 with Mr. Lorry, and had its weight in h
e nothing good or serviceable to be reme
usiness was with all degrees of mankind,
t test its soundness for yourself; if, o
tood, like a spirit, beside him, and he 
as almost dark when they arrived at the 
lass, from the portrait of Jeffries down
straw his father had been chewing, and c
ou would shout and shed tears for anythi
"Can I do anything for you, Mr. Stryver?
ne-shop going straight to this one when 
ch him attentively, with as little appea
edge, to the conducting of experiments, 
sped through his arm: and he, in a tone 
the sound of her voice, and he presently
ering trees. Such ample leisure had the 
, and after many efforts, the dose that 
"Yes, Jerry."
"
 of actual pain, that it rang in Charles
 dissatisfied results. All the time, our
 her in the respect, and himself in the 
Lorry had not known it for a fact, years
ilk, if you wish her to thirst for it. J
f the true reason of his restlessness, t
ears. "On the top of the gallows is fixe
 box of water-colours; the second was th
Mr. Attorney-General sat down, and the f
t is well. Forward!" from the uniform. "
ollowed Gabelle's letter: the appeal of 
n, at a distance, with much feebler symp
 its own way above their heads.
and sullen and hangdog kind, that, upon 
"I believe," said the spy, dropping his 
er IX     The Game Made      Chapter X  
 the cause, and then the dark part of my
tly. He knew very well, that in his love
elf. He knew himself by no other name th
 young, cannot fully appreciate the anxi
 walls.
Jerry! I say, Jerry! You'd be in a Blazi
 his worldly affairs. That done, with ma
 little pinch of snuff, and shook his he
"For my sake, then, be merciful to my hu
 wall. At the appointed hour, he emerged
t unlikely that he was one of them?"
"You think it necessary to keep the unfo
ience, my dear!" Three turnkeys who ente
he had been all that time traversing the
ryver the portly, with his hands in his 
ok at the well-remembered expression on 
 arms at the fountain, looking at the pi
re from the life--his own life, maybe--f
The great bell of Saint Paul's was strik
egin again, and she would repeat the cry
riend's appearance being careless and sl
om Defarge. And so, under a short grove 
, and he looked about him vacantly.
 she looked in at his door and came runn
all in the wrong."
e tongues of the Two Cities that were bl
l) piece of furniture, tolerated for its
n't think he'd been a drinking!"
 coat he carried over his shoulder, took
n air about him that was not all of pity
 to you that you wish to hear. You leave
ter look than any other place of the sam
"Business is very bad; the people are so
r various disguises of Art, through the 
tinctly and collectedly, though in the s
father. (There was a time in my imprison
egular series of gradations, and coaxed 
is control--the setting sun.
t for the dawning Republic One and Indiv
It was a hard parting, though it was not
 "The Prisoners!" was the cry most taken
d to the actual tread of Sydney Carton. 
e one solitary wife, who, in her manners
ng, a dozen together. When the wine was 
t your old love speak for me!"
 well, and acted as a telegraph between 
, and were drinking brandy in its state 
e standing in the room.
 look at you."
ied hard, and never ceased trying, to ge
oint of endurance, may, in another gener
s no getting over his evidence, the coun
 more nat'ral sense of duty than the bed
Mr. Stryver, in the friendliest way, "th
on to me," said Charles Darnay, quite as
elf, and to draw a gloom over him, as in
"It's the wisest thing to expect, and th
n himself any longer, touched Mr. Stryve
d never yet, by so much as a single spok
ere overworked now--"
when she was a wife and a mother, but he
e quiet, and the night wore on, the word
wine, and, as he took up a Jacobin journ
o had looked into the red coals at the R
 seems to trouble you too much, aside. I
nate feeling about the boy, or about his
himself, that Friday night in November, 
Very strange to see what a struggle ther
"Good day, monsieur."
ffect upon the audience. Cries in exalta
address, coming forward, "I have the hon
ph."
e certain than those that have produced 
 I might embrace him once! O, good citiz
m, but followed him upstairs with a bump
e to you, and that my name, and faults, 
patience, but with his unchangeable face
ced at the distant House, and lowered hi
y at those times, and would briskly fall
alled Darnay, had reason to know the usa
r, apostrophising himself in his usual w
or so long a time, do I find you here!"
ng. There is no man in this world on who
rth, the fifth. Five days, six days, sev
erved that it was a shoe of the old size
said a man near her.
Doctor Manette, whom this visitation had
d.
 in my different way; look it in the fac
's time, when it is equally yours? Can I
"These fools know nothing. While they de
h a determination so strong, that he hel
y embracing one another on the triumphs 
 at her with the knife, though they had.
e, and looking about him with a vacant a
 fire till I come back! Take care of the
ys. The resemblance was not lessened by 
by using or distributing this work (or a
But, if my life were not to be still con
ead of the bed when I was there. But whe
 at the great gate sounded, and he thoug
to make the meagreness of Frenchmen an E
ry eye then sought some other eye in the
the terms of the Project Gutenberg Licen
urned until they all stopped at once, be
) have that hopefulness to-morrow."
ffect to make light of anything that was
keep the forge?"
as an hour later and darker when Lucie c
torney-General's) father and mother. Tha
in other hands at that time, sir."
 he had seen similar lists to these in t
he counter as he came in. Madame Defarge
possessed in a physical medium      and 
at to seat, and from corner to corner, s
He laid his own upon it as he spoke.
a statement of its just price, one finge
 then his inside will be taken out and b
t impeach him for it.
e group, or interchanged a word with any
 of business in Paris, would soon have d
ar of his country. That, if statues were
 of it was heavy--cold, dirt, sickness, 
hafed and bleeding; his great shoes, stu
 the witness, but everybody present, whe
her the moment she appeared.
er pay him? No. Was not this intimacy wi
he showed that the Accused was his first
. Lorry and Charles Darnay were left alo
you is for ever in the way. How do I kno
 been so fortunate.
othing but to have my place occupied, an
t in circumstances. Why do I do it?"
s face. But, in the composure of his man
xcited orator, mounted on a stool, was a
horses' bridles.
stain you. Sustain yourself without that
hip just now referred to, sir, and on th
pile him, sir."
ss: whose character (dissociated from st
 age, with a watchful eye that seldom se
nd distrust, not even unmixed with fear.
As The Vengeance descends from her eleva
 when you get back to England. If you ha
"I have no business to be, at all, that 
ttle longer, watching an eddy that turne
ne--between you, is to touch your histor
echoed the sentiment, and one added, "Fo
tively intent intelligence in the middle
ng to say, in French or in English, conc
tural--asked him, in all good-humour and
en Thread
House out of its mind and into the Gazet
e day's client; or seeing him dine--it's
t under his arm and his snuff-box in his
rse that I thought would never reproach 
l be, but one man worthy of Ladybird," s
red in the doorway of the wood-sawyer's 
led up so pleasantly to a little proposa
he quiet corner in Soho, that this preci
 shoulder, "it's my opinion that indeed 
the streets.
er place to write such words in?"
he Dover mail on that Friday night in No
ey were ready to go to church; the beaut
ather say so. She was a good girl. She w
ere a pistol and a cruel knife.
ade use of them, as people not unfrequen
 and shut out the sight of him, but whic
ors to this Tribunal, he had announced h
ay know what it is."
Jacques Three, equally intent, on one kn
 would not detain me, he had a coach in 
"If it ever becomes mine, it shall be pu
These are again the words of Jarvis Lorr
e coachman, and the two other passengers
t one another and spun round in pairs, u
e times when the tide made, and was near
enger started, as a nervous passenger mi
He was drawing his hand from his breast;
rnament. As an emotion of the mind will 
 understanding of it, nor tact for it. F
ed at Darnay with a close attention.
reply to the House; "I have referred it,
"I really go to-night, for the case has 
 to assist me to compose her figure and 
 gradually weakened them; he was an old 
ear her spoken of in that tone of yours,
 likeliest thing upon the cards. So the 
nd wake me at ten."
upon no better man? Tell her, to-night, 
im!" said Madame Defarge. "Let it do so.
Trial at which he had assisted. "I've se
of the barrels of a hundred thousand mus
g out, the concourse made at him anew, w
e had been putting on his clothes, "if I
g-rooms; musketeers went into St. Giles'
 odd little sleek crisp flaxen wig, sett
, that its effect was delightful. The di
y sat under the plane-tree, talking, she
 father and no tidings!
 him uneasy. In all other respects, howe
ere a white-haired man sat on a low benc
 tradesman, there's hopes wot that boy w
still with her knitting in her hands as 
illage--had a faint and bare existence t
 uttered a word.
Carton stooped to pick up the coat, whic
y voices--among which, the soft and comp
aciously.'
 see them--by the Lightning." He added t
s Pross, "you may rely upon my telling M
 I am sure, Boldface! I hope _you_ are p
aring with beastly excitement and want o
ather!" and, after raising this fictitio
"Since the state of your mind that you d
 came attended by the Furies, Monsieur t
"Something that crossed me?"
t there coffin. Let him say he was, in s
n sees the Spy, and looks attentively at
-work to do. Don't look like the sort of
ceability of any provision of this agree
rciful, and held him, and his head was s
"Such is the fact, certainly," said Defa
tablished the fact that her brother Solo
ecret?"
sing such a thing.
ton led the way to Mr. Lorry's, which wa
valent tendency towards an appearance of
shable from one another; the figure on t
ame Defarge, sternly, "that she made to 
nd work were hidden that it still moanin
al."
jackal, with knitted brows and intent fa
 turnkey at the Conciergerie?"
 the shoemaker, whose hand had been a li
y, always striving to hook Mr. Lorry int
The staunch old gentleman was still in h
ion of electronic works, by using or dis
ole, but implacable-looking, too; eviden
r before midnight, and no sooner; took h
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten
ey began, through what agency they crook
ildren," said the Doctor of Beauvais, "a
ress, I shall have no fear."
im--"
r grindstone stood alone there in the ca
e second was the Doctor's consulting-roo
 a projectile for the correction of Mrs.
 said Monsieur Defarge to himself; "I do
f good which never became manifest.
"It is what I meant to say."
hat small and ghostly hour, he rose up f
 going to use them,' I replied, and said
ould rouse suspicion."
With drooping heads and tremulous tails,
"Do you feel, yet, that you belong to th
ier, and sent to prison."
 a cheerful firmness of conviction he co
ecalled the spectacle.
 care of; during the next fortnight, whi
 and to bless me. Kiss me, kiss me! O my
 to bid Lucie good night, and they separ
or him or her help to him, and asked her
ts began to shine in high windows, and s
 friends, pointing out the chain with hi
ut of it--"as such I will appeal to Doct
was, at best, short to the lock-up hour,
 arise directly or indirectly from any o
ill lock the door to secure us from inte
d soft, as if it had never been.
Monsieur the Marquis cast his eyes over 
hem thus:
"
d your opportunity, to sustain you. Sust
olete, old, middle-aged and new computer
 my heart as Mrs. Cruncher may be a flop
ittle pikes, and with little red caps st
fear he is not to be reclaimed; there is
The President rang his bell to silence t
"Just so. And you know Mr. Lorry."
Young Jerry inferred, from the circumsta
raged than he really was, and approached
earned in the law had now shouldered bac
the streets, was another relief. She loo
It would kill me if I saw her too soon."
ways with her. I know that when she is c
 the boy. He was smoother and more polit
 is not dangerous."
w many steps it had, where he would be s
     Chapter XXII   The Sea Still Rises 
ff hair on Mr. Cruncher's head.
il of the softened colour of a dead leaf
"It is Defarge," said madame. "Silence, 
read experiences would revive the old da
ar! Let me go to the door."
y people there much better worth interfe
ll me that you are essential to her perf
usiness is to be done, I had better do i
e middle of the room were gloomily refle
ins of it to a distance, dropped one ove
urning dresses, which she and her child 
er or limitation set forth in this agree
self with no flattering delusion since h
, the footsteps had become to their mind
"Has it been your misfortune to undergo 
1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
ting himself in the breast with his blue
u are in! The least thing--nothing--star
s clothes were chafed into holes, as he 
sting wife, and all the other eyes there
not?"
imely information. You are not afraid?"
 was not mere waste and ruin. As my belo
"is your hazard very great?"
me for it; which she certainly should ne
ng twinkle in his bright eye, as it look
"Killed!" shrieked the man, in wild desp
the admiration of the whole Court!"
I have thought so before now. I believe 
y, that the last confidence of my life w
ipping his coffee. "Dare I ask you to ex
 yet. Speak for yourself."
he Vengeance, and embraced her.
rave voices; and upon them, and upon the
 spy, they kept no servant; the citizen 
d handed in his letter through a trap in
urself, Mr. Lorry; I have come for a pri
y, were highly appreciative of her fine 
 the night into two watches, and observe
farge, "but one must stop somewhere. Aft
"Thank you. And again, God bless you."
emory," said Stryver.
"'You had better see,' he carelessly ans
hilled, "What shall I do! What shall I d
game lasted. There was little roughness 
e      has agreed to donate royalties un
ght. Go! God bless you!"
ree years of tempest were consumed. Thre
ow me as a dissolute dog, who has never 
epends on many uncertainties and inciden
ditor, they resumed their conversation.
every open door in them, Miss Pross got 
 and desertion reigned there. Only one s
ee, in a low voice. "We really have not 
" said Sydney Carton. "Who is the lady?"
he day of my death!"
 name of the Father of Lies, own father 
voluntary action she caught at, or staye
 the good cause when I might have kep' i
gan it--"
ade a purpose otherwise strongly in favo
 companion?"
 For scores of years gone by, Monseigneu
ntion; and whenever Mr. Lorry's eye caug
ut last night, the difficulty of taking 
ut.
 to be dipped in the sea. A little fishi
on gaols fought battles with their turnk
The sunset struck so brilliantly into th
pon his mother. He greatly disturbed tha
llory, a wise old institution, that infl
ceived the added appellation of Jerry.
, were the directing spirits of the scen
ys, he was accustomed to be with them as
n? O Mr. Carton, think again! Try again!
pected of stealing a silver tea-pot; he 
ot an every day or an every night look, 
as just intelligible:
rs.
 carol of the birds was loud and high, a
scomfort of being so attended, and apart
e. A kettle steamed upon the hob, and in
t, and hear the echoes about which you h
 their experience of what such a man cou
be this. Upon that there stool, at that 
est or curiosity, but with a dull mechan
"To me, women!" cried madame his wife. "
slunk about there from the time of the o
ng, which overshadowed him with such a f
t pretend next; and he felt assured that
uded again, they were fainter, they were
n a line or so and posted it in the Bank
ctingly and delicately indicated by his 
tivated a taste for its stores of knowle
emed to divide her love for him or her h
ar what he did? Don't ask, why, in these
Monsieur the Marquis.
t; the citizen and citizeness who acted 
 and while he besought her: the women pa
kers-on, taking note of him now, said to
stone and brick, more like dry waterfall
advanced. She never abated the piercing 
ng for him with the old pretty lifting o
my father!--"
w a secret to communicate. Ask him, is t
leased.
f her face, the touch of her hand, had a
ally bad offence, as to justify any such
the death-carts rumble, hollow and harsh
Cruncher; "I won't have none of _your_ n
sfied with it, you can but test its soun
ting-yard, and many voices called out lo
nd chain, and other fishing tackle of th
 Whatever gloss the various spectators p
The hungry man gnawed one of his fingers
 it, when the women who had tended the b
 You may tell him so, with my compliment
o him before he left the place, condemne
ed Sydney, with a lighter and more good-
Then, began one of those extraordinary s
 his hair as stiff as his father's.
it hard to discover among the angels of 
m (with infinite jingle and jangle) for 
er; he asks him, by his name, what he ha
A shiver ran through her frame, and from
 and plaiting the lashes of their whips;
 flop (if it was anyways conwenient) to 
hat fierce precipitation, that now upon 
ountain--"
acity (remembering how young and smooth 
"Yes!"
The ministers of Sainte Guillotine are r
again.
armer-General. Thirty horses stood in hi
 of the sky. Then, the night, with the m
ckness and skill, in such a business as 
f him, but which were now extending towa
have fancied--but even the shade of a fo
"Miss Manette!"
"That's all. He wishes to have a messeng
"Now, my dear Manette," said Mr. Lorry, 
knitted with nimble fingers and steady e
e first, with his former reluctance, "as
ut of the lives that may depend on both 
smith's work. We will say, to put a case
ansmutation of metals, at this wonderful
sked the prisoner, aboard the Calais pac
us in their rich furniture; but, it was 
e saw hardly any danger. The intention w
ave thought it possible that you might h
rations for his speedy return, the setti
t would be produced, would show the pris
le prisoner! Help for the Bastille priso
or safe keeping through the night. All t
h for any foreigner, was not to be shake
ight, and mostly under water, so, Sydney
uccess, he says there's no reason at all
"But I don't know how to originate, in s
e gone. Three of the doors she opened sw
eir boots with their riding-whips, and l
"Never."
asion."
and be damned to you, for I have had tro
 to be expected of, or by, such profliga
far off, was the one small link, that th
saved him."
the only outspoken reliefs of her heavy 
hree was nearly at his side; Madame Defa
fer less; but it is not for me. There is
that our father told us it was a dreadfu
 manner.
heat. On inanimate nature, as on the men
he saw a tight, hard, wiry woman before 
r or authorised exponent, to this cart a
III. The Shadow
oceeded to offer it to him. The lion too
ld immersion in bringing refractory memb
ine. Put your hands to them; put your wi
"I see Barsad, and Cly, Defarge, The Ven
 forth to be massacred, or to be release
ou go to the Court to-morrow?"
 must meet, and that numbers went the sa
liar kind of short cough requiring the h
, and sat near you. I had no difficulty 
he had never been so intent on his work,
 crevice in the chimney into which his w
"My dear Charles," said Mr. Lorry, with 
 his saw sticking in the firewood he was
atisfaction, and so arrived circuitously
grim with certain old boar-spears, sword
to dry her eyes and compose herself, "I 
rance."
 him with their guns--like this!"
 expect, and the likeliest. But I think 
t himself to her; do you not?"
eur looked out.
, he often got up next morning to find t
e here, are things to be seen, and not s
he was then, so he is now."
t is lazy, did it not include the troubl
, and why not? But the frightened valet 
other than Mr. Barsad. I wish for your s
r.
desk, in the general departure from the 
o the shrewd glance of Mr. Lorry it disc
 a time, over the heads of the crowd, li
advantage over you. Cly (who I will unre
t, my darling. I must not urge them too 
ad caused the adjoining bed-chamber to b
ked for another glass of cognac. Madame 
art of his life.
m, bolt upright, upon its narrow end, al
To this effect, in as few or fewer words
hen I ask that, refuse. There are pen an
ckening nothing, lighting nothing, doing
t her gently from him, and looked at her
n, and that what they had was secured to
s."
"If you hear in my voice--I don't know t
Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promotin
Angel's wings got blended with the other
t to Solomon, there was a braced purpose
stille that is no more?"
times, before he put it clumsily into th
and again, and lay down to meditate. The
ed it with the tri-colour, and were drin
he hour or two. If I go to Mr. Lorry's a
for the journey, and had brought with th
nd smooth it again."
n spirits and now in despondency!"
gers for a few moments, and took the opp
ynonymous with the free distribution of 
at each name. There were twenty-three na
d been of late familiar to them. He retu
-thinning throng of victims, but they sp
, when he heard a foot upon the stair. I
r assumed any theatrical air in it. He w
uttered in every vestige of a garment th
nd shook his head; as elegantly desponde
se my last recorded words, whether they 
y.
tage, remarked:
suspense is nearly ended, my darling; he
As the last thing on earth that his hear
into the country, and dine there, and al
y and strongly to the home you so adorn-
to the opposite shore. Brief as such com
yeing the direction through his glass in
nge consisted in the appearance of stran
his agreement and help preserve free fut
after his long and unwholesome confineme
"I shall be there, but only as one of th
"If any one of these men, or all of thes
 and the coachman was sure of nothing bu
ards the execution of this benevolent pu
al Banking-house by Temple Bar, the real
 Force. It may be too late, I don't know
to show what he could be and do. Saint A
 compassion merged into the less musical
 Could you favour me, in confidence, wit
in a courtly manner, but they did not sh
He resorted to his pint of wine for cons
en they began to fish.
py, as he paused for a last moment.
 distributing Project Gutenberg-tm elect
 and evil communications corrupted its g
person plunges into the river."
d very recognisant of your services; are
y, and ever shall. Say but one affection
and lonely spurring over dreary roads, t
stuck upon them, and their hideous count
rue? Positively. Ever live by cheating a
 flowed to the feet of Madame Defarge. B
nd we are going there: I, to identify hi
uitted herself marvellously. Her dinners
 a whisper, of the man he found himself 
th his cruel fingers at his hungry mouth
f such a thing. He began to have suspici
 do; but I don't think you do."
In a dead silence and stillness--the pri
nt requisition as to property confiscate
ou there," said the Marquis, smiling. "H
s forfeit to the Republic, under the dec
 with a plump of his fist on the desk.
e, within an hour.
ses stood in his stables, twenty-four ma
asion you to travel between London and D
th of the sun fell asleep on the bank. W
bered up Shooter's Hill. He walked up hi
g to fear from me."
e rooms: his bed-chamber and two others.
e, We all three alighted, and walked, by
"I call myself the Samson of the firewoo
eady. Crash!--A head is held up, and the
ght them down and handed them in;--and i
ce, and of condoling with you on the cal
rance that I opened my heart to you, las
The Doctor looked desolately round the r
my husband? I have no feeling either way
"What an admirable woman; what an adorab
n this fatal place. What prison is he in
: "I believe there is much compassion an
 takes place, and grinds to pieces every
-day?"
 for itself and wearing out.
ht!" said Darnay, drawing his arm about 
ave her for a moment to her own reflecti
chiefs. I noticed that these bonds were 
 old wood-ashes, and in a crevice in the
ame so far exalted by the change, that h
earance, be the wife of Lucifer," said M
came absorbed in it.
st, and not much the forlorner for being
ce released, when the tide in his favour
he words of our conversation. I suspect 
d laughed.
"With two companions. A gentleman and la
rnkeys who entered responsive to a bell 
"The citizeness is superb!" croaked the 
hem; also, with tricoloured ribbons; als
, that was highly fraught with nothing. 
o weigh the possibility of his father's 
The speaker who struck in, was Sydney Ca
ges, down cavernous flights of steps, an
up to twelve, and said, 'Hush!' For an i
l her that more depends upon it than she
is immaculate and unimpeachable witness 
 inscribed as his "Little Sainte Guillot
 safest way of life, involving the least
ude such glances as they have seen in th
yes. His chin dropped upon his hand, and
heory."
d ever want to understand your nonsensic
ted rooms with cool uncarpeted floors, g
a misspent life, until the House came wi
abode. Whereas, to this wretched hour I 
 for the journey?" asked Mr. Lorry.
ugh, mind! I expect nothing! When are yo
 been sown broadcast, and had yielded fr
"I never said it would."
re Monseigneur of the Court--only the di
rk, I see?"
zen must, and in a window he had station
seen, and not spoken of.'
e.
you can have no conception of the diffic
 but Doctor Manette did not come back. M
irit of the law.
's story; the manner of all of them, whi
he had no suspicions.
"No, miss," answered Mr. Cruncher.
 stout woman, knitting.
ng citizen would assuredly have had one.
clinging to him.
nkey, and Jacques Three, linked hand and
eld her to her breast. The shadow attend
rything.
sat every day. Their lists went forth ev
"Did you ever see anybody very like the 
 was to honour and obey; why the devil d
land. If you have, don't expect me to ke
he Fancy Ball descended to the Common Ex
 healing office, and at peace. I see the
nitting. On one of the fore-most chairs,
ions from donors in such states who appr
 of sparing the poor child the inheritan
e use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calc
 and unaccountable.
aratively speaking) before him. And when
a compatriot who has found a Refuge ther
ls, eight great towers, cannon, muskets,
them knew what his men would do--beyond 
 voice there was none, save the falling 
ded. Flashing weapons, blazing torches, 
uring to any accused person any reasonab
ighbourhood, and were but two in number,
me years ago."
we have done wrong, and are reaping the 
e to know what to do when the time came;
o substance in it, Lucie."
n knowledge can split a ray of light and
y's breathless reflection, simultaneousl
ly one."
ng off his clay-soiled boots, and lying 
n.
ence, perhaps some latent disclosure in 
e coffee-room, when a gentleman of sixty
r, emaciated hands and figures. But the 
mb!"
ompany--would have found it hard to disc
anette with the firmness of self-convict
rain of cough, and raised her eyebrows b
"My wife came to your house to reclaim h
 this visitor entered, was there one lef
ttention to the last--to the last, Jacqu
 Courtyard, as the women sat knitting, k
ed, in a load of hay--"some years ago."
treasure and other things submerged. It 
age closed upon him, not a common barrie
      Chapter XIII   Fifty-two      Chap
 the lowest terms that could sustain it,
omposedly in his saddle looking on, with
oak, hat, long hatband, white pocket-han
ut of the midst of them, the ghostly fac
e, and I have been busy with the other b
 taken from him, Mr. Lorry said, still l
ow, as I look into your kind strong face
rning in the unhealthy direction. He may
aid Mr. Cruncher, with unconscious incon
 write?"
ls with a deep, hoarse roar, from which,
he journey."
"You have seen Mr. Carton here, yourself
aid:
 riding away?
ange the instrument in his hand, for his
country, and have brought him in. I have
y answer, for I was troubled in my mind 
Of the riders in the tumbrils, some obse
 at that time, but afterwards when I tra
u, and the horse in a foam, clattered aw
e of dire exasperation:
se rooted conviction that she was more t
ered to-morrow."
three customers fallen forward asleep, w
"Then you mean to tell me, Mr. Lorry," s
lage in the hollow, the peasants at the 
er; don't blow upon that boy's father--d
"Oh, Carton, Carton, dear Carton!" cried
ten came home after banking hours with c
As to the strength of his case, he had n
 plots of Monseigneur for the restoratio
ings of him, and brought none. Where cou
The plaintive tone of her compassion mer
o a point where she could see him, and w
ging there; it was a dull lamp, and they
n avenue, and presently stopped at a sol
e, he had actually been tried for his li
"However, I am not going," said Charles 
ed about among them, similar to these li
"'You see, monsieur, I am going to use t
unch at a great rate; drank it by bumper
sfigurement like any other woman. She ne
and nights long, which, within a few rou
es, were entirely in Tellson's hands. In
ill you, for a moment, steadily attend t
till looking at him with a smile while h
t successor, from himself?"
oler awaited him, and many voices--among
 twilight, his new charge accompanied hi
of every Drinking Age.
the echoes of his feet, and were in the 
evoutest person could have rendered no g
"Come here."
"Say of you, Miss Manette, and although 
siness confidence.
 and manner, what the unintelligible wor
Sorceress, or Cinderella's Godmother: wh
o other than the same Monseigneur, the p
o the people, but because they were not 
to communicate to Mr. Lorry of Tellson's
near it as you can, and I am sure it wil
d with this eBook or online at www.guten
t, which did occasionally happen, he had
e, "the secret is yours, not mine; and I
reet, and rumbled into the inn-yard.
blem.
 thee it never retreats, and never stops
rvening outer rooms, and opened it. A ru
efarge spoke, Mr. Lorry put on his hat a
ld have forgiven him), to take Ladybird'
ou are looking forward with so much plea
 against a cannon, and on the instant he
 said the last comer. "Be a brave man, m
mpassion and lamenting of his dead mothe
n the tranquilly resounding corner, list
business, are anxious not to lose the fi
yebrows up, and slightly rustled in her 
Defarge; "at least nothing more than wou
hey were dancing like five thousand demo
she whispered.
s, when these breasts were dry with want
ted with the Tribunal, who wore their us
 and whirled them away.
 that direction; consequently she knew n
oad (except at Beauvais) he had heard ab
ed her further views to them thus:
"Hallo you!"
 behind the little counter, and stood wi
 into the grief she had repressed all da
uddenly held it from him and dropped som
ever will.'"
larger sort of dog.
ld; and on the scarce occasions when two
 as to admission or denial of the fact.
other for scores of our customers. These
"You do not find it easy to advise me?" 
, or try to get their straying thoughts 
The fountain in the village flowed unsee
be twin brothers.
 his indecision, met her glance. The you
eral were going rather wrong. As a promi
ust be very desolate to-night."
s business. The Dover road lay, as to hi
"None." Defarge spoke, always looking st
 including any word processing or hypert
t see where his wound was, as I kneeled 
hey have no part in His mercies. And the
ost! It will be his Ghost--not him!"
 for one's life, to be the object of suc
are pursued?
."
nd went chatting home. At one of the the
s wife implored.
ciation.
That, in the first frantic greetings lav
al concourse pouring down Fleet-street w
 into the furnace; four fierce figures t
riends, stood with folded arms at the fo
 him do a murder and afterwards flay the
nce; they had been able to extend it, by
"Not even by the dearest one ever to be 
 they might enjoy the fire-light undistu
y a bright fire. Mr. Lorry was expected 
 buckles, too, though plain, were trim. 
 their last roadside, with an impassive 
them again in the morning sunlight, on t
 out?"
father with dutiful interest, and report
?
ght, or Snooks Brothers' might; but Tell
vant, Cly, was his friend and partner, a
 you on the calamity that has brought yo
tor were left together, Mr. Lorry said, 
 on the side of the sun going to bed, wh
e. At last, when he appealed by name to 
other two was like; and each was hidden 
g, intolerable oppression, and heartless
ir home together, and to rest in her bos
f continuity. I knew that this might las
is present time, no matter what things, 
e reply, "at the commencement."
ars for having lighted him in his declin
hope so. He is very simple; is he not a 
 of a Home long desolate, while your poo
ouse he carried some coarse dark bread; 
g one another, I can see, even in this B
momentarily darkened with her hand; "suc
made clean again if once stained red, th
me where she was, and I told her; who I 
st good in the way of prevention--it mig
"If we ever get back to our native land,
ding their time. Little need to show tha
east with his forefinger--they were now 
and sing; in the morning, by the fountai
"Good day!" answered Defarge, drily.
e to him, in her dread of the scene, and
banished all emigrants on pain of Death.
nison. Men and women danced together, wo
lous quickness, at a distance: the more 
e Guillotine would strike off her husban
new domicile, were admitted by Jerry, an
http://pglaf.org/donate
its ribbon in her hand. As his eyes rest
But, before she could repeat the questio
"To the eye it is fair enough, here; but
should have been, patches of poor peas a
 your life; steadily and constantly occu
e I am; I wish you'd give me a little br
A wild-looking woman, whom even in his a
y, "it shall not be named to you. Second
he majesty of the law fired blunderbusse
 as a small dog would have done, retreat
is fancy would dig, and dig, dig--now wi
"Citizen Doctor," said the first, with h
 Defarge's arm as he held by the turnkey
 for his sake, be held inviolate in safe
 was young, and the evening and morning 
ficer, and remained immovable close to h
innermost personality, to me, or than I 
and showed the surprise with which he sa
ed about him.
The panting of the horses communicated a
th mysterious significance. The elder ge
annot trust my husband in this matter. N
e opened and the remains discovered, wha
omething touching influence?"
ly as one of the crowd. My Spy will find
of the first man who ran against him:
t he meant when he said your life was no
, as the safest remark he could think of
 been presented in Paris, showing that h
yard and remained there for a few moment
kal; "mix another bowl of punch; I have 
"Nothing in the wood, and nothing in the
--how can I fail to know--that, mingled 
and themselves, to madness with the wild
ater, carried him in an instant to the h
 or this arrangement. It would not enabl
d show the prisoner to have been furnish
ster of the wine-shop was not visible. H
ity of sleep. After long and lonely spur
in good time, and so went through the mu
well knew what it would be; but, when he
ments of gold, nor to lie on beds of ros
 exclaimed Jacques Three, rapturously. "
When Saint Antoine had again enfolded th
"I entreat you to tell me more, sir."
 pore, had walked before him like three 
s the light of the sun itself is--as the
inest breeding wore little pendent trink
g in one of them.
ed him in a whisper, with a little anger
.
was not from within; it was occasioned b
"Infected with the new doctrines," said 
be with them as the family friend, talki
e between themselves and the carriage do
this muffler with his left hand, only wh
 if the tale of fifty-two is to be right
 the public domain in the United States 
ther would be much to us now?"
 responded to the salutation, as if it w
d had been a little out at first, was gr
"Not at all. Though it is to a prisoner 
 Professors of the provinces, Monsieur O
Knitting      Chapter XVI    Still Knitt
 of the day.
 they wanted. After peeping into several
, kiss me! O my dear, my dear!"
d no persuasion, and was soon asleep.
 kept close company with it. If any one 
en fright at them, and drawn out his mon
ace and figure, that was to make the mea
 breast, he was the first to see it, and
ld mail coach; they were mysteries to on
those two passengers?"
a frightfully grand woman!"
en out to be hanged; in the next room (m
mmon your brother, the worst of the bad 
iting without further opportunities to f
"My mind misgives me much," said Mr. Lor
g in search of other carrion.
e, talking, she kept his glass replenish
rcumstances of his country, and those we
ght golden hair against his little brown
 urge them too much; it would rouse susp
 he suspected. Mr. Barsad saw losing car
 near Madame Defarge's counter. A third 
hadow
y appointment, by me, Jacques Four. He w
Defarges slept: even The Vengeance slept
to be beaten by some mysterious giant wh
e with any particular paper edition.
 grim pursuer. His cunning was fresh wit
 his wife."
espattered with rustic mire, snuffed abo
ry large. But, unfortunately, there has 
th a door in the roof, with a little cra
g my case?"
rely yield the same fruit according to i
ising from below, not falling from above
n safety, so that it could not but appea
"I seek him. We seek him. I know you, Ev
y, that perhaps George Washington might 
at no cares and duties seemed to divide 
uld, the Farmer-General--howsoever his m
rated some person in that capacity, and 
said, in a dialect that was just intelli
A tall man in a nightcap had caught up a
agnificent potentate, the Lord Mayor of 
, received from twenty to twenty-four ho
osity knows how to make allowance for th
ead about this man," retorted the conten
 hour had measured like most other hours
fe, it is possible--that it may not come
ou start!"
 that were falling from the spring of Ti
ords, as he held her to his bosom.
"Spies! Yaha! Tst, tst! Spi--ies!"
r. Miss Pross's friendship being of the 
 No; the great magician who majestically
 able to confide their property to us fa
 dismal house by the wine-shop, in the s
ssistance!"
deration that there was no disgrace in t
it was not a little that he knew about t
 of September, patriot emissaries of the
"All work is stopped, all assemble there
asted with sorrowing mothers and bloomin
, that I have been true to you. Oh Monsi
 one of absolute bliss, but for the yet 
 sea of turbulently swaying shapes, voic
ling from above, and with the windows of
eparately, and had been about to order d
r Manette, intellectual of face and upri
the prison of the Conciergerie while I w
es had become, even in one short week, e
is Lorry twice stopped to rest. Each of 
almost always with him, and though the c
lence they go walking up and down togeth
"What is that?" he calmly asked, looking
"Tell me how and why am I again a prison
ain when the occasion wanted it. It hush
 soon, he kept another course in reserve
ntoine escort through the Paris streets 
lifting her heart up to her husband, she
released from the horror of being ogled 
Take her, Charles! She is yours!"
on his head with both hands (which was m
evening.
flating himself at his friend as he made
 that way," rejoined Stryver, shoulderin
stronger in him than any stimulating sen
be the wife of a honest tradesman, and n
 and manner, his daughter fell upon her 
 air, as if he hungered for something--t
haggy black spencer looked, in that atti
s in Concord. (You will find a fine sea-
lept. East, West, North, and South, thro
r's--his daughter's, my dear Manette."
nsieur," returned the keeper of the wine
s that he caught from this man's lips, f
Whether he had really been to any one, o
n so hard with you that you ask me such 
ams of that unhappy one, within the lock
e, accordingly, much discoursing with sp
inspiring her. If he had given any utter
at midnight.
 die for the sins of his forefathers; sh
 softly on the ground within the gate, a
."
Greater things than the Doctor had at th
"Yes, indeed. When Doctor Manette was re
e a privilege that I in my own time have
her with some curiosity.
se to the writer's face.
 when the paper was read."
re him after the demonstration in the co
irected his own company just before. It 
 to a prisoner in the Abbaye."
t, his mind was busily digging, digging,
 hard," said Miss Pross.
lf down, he fell asleep. In the morning,
ry cloak that would fit anything.
 never taking hers from the prisoner, De
The fountain was a little removed; for t
o receive them.
 very friendly to you, and very recognis
"The wives and mothers we have been used
"Where could you wait for me?" asked Mis
knitting-needle at little Lucie as if it
ssly worked to give a more suspicious ap
etinue; prisoners in London gaols fought
to hand, heart to heart, these two child
. Not in regular government pay and empl
ain, and dined at a place of refreshment
low.
And yet he did care something for the st
 being of French extraction, did require
e Defarges, and has been rehearsed by Ma
till again, he turned to walk down the h
 to help it down with a large invisible 
ich was as delicate and fine as it was p
ll the weakness, to wish you to know wit
 night were broad and black. All through
hat madame was to accompany monsieur and
er, and as if there were nothing amiss. 
xpected labour, and he found it, and did
on of the law was certainly not behind a
 "'Wait at Dover for Mam'selle.' It's no
 vain for Madame Defarge to struggle and
e him upon his trial; that the jury were
th, rose from all the varying soils of F
 hands in his pockets, staring at the ce
as his weaknesses, and he is so weak as 
e standing--for carriages--where, indeed
sweeps of staircase meeting in a stone t
As to finances public, because Monseigne
s breathing was a little quickened; but 
r knot, as if there were another enemy s
plied, and said no more.
of the fastest horses ever foaled.
d worked, and worked, in silence, and wo
wine-shop of Monsieur Defarge. As early 
erve my place. Wait for nothing but to h
ht and freshness pouring in at doorways,
t arms they had, and came pouring down i
ded about among them, but I don't know w
amonds, very bright and sparkling, glanc
n he peeped in at the gate for the secon
"I saw him then, messieurs," began the m
remembrance invisible to any one. Dear m
"My child," said the Doctor, rising, and
ing-houses, as being before him.
 our good Pross. Our good Pross, Defarge
ntrymen there: gradually, as a tempter a
in the old manner, looked up in the old 
late could not so much as get into the t
the lamp, Miss Pross bethought herself o
gaoler was so unwholesomely bloated, bot
er instant would have brought upon him, 
her.
"Citizen Evremonde," she said, touching 
d as of old; then, had gleamed trenchant
ngaged in the preparation of some games 
n of Monseigneur. Unbelieving Philosophe
s made to stand and deliver on Turnham G
ter. The man never trod ground whose vir
er things that she must wear. These she 
man) was a national blessing, gave a chi
r aged and their sick crouching on the b
There was a murmur of commiseration as C
er and forage where he could, the Farmer
ud of its darkness, proud of its uglines
t two gentlemen had time to open the doo
eived the letter, and will come.'"
words."
assing it and preceding it on the road, 
mosphere seemed gore and fire. The eye c
ion, he cocked his blunderbuss, and stoo
e comforted! But, within myself, I shall
to send somebody from our House here to 
little more?"
ken in her own hair if she had been the 
rank it all in a few minutes, and fell a
in France, with its rich variety of soil
 building--that is to say, the room or r
 it, you can receive a refund of the mon
- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gr
of equipment including outdated equipmen
 had laid his poor head on her own breas
e Vengeance, looking about for her frien
mmering sound in his bedroom. Passing li
e contact information can be found at th
of a most distressing nature were vividl
year one thousand seven hundred and seve
Doctor, in talking with Lucie, never ref
nay's name was called. All the fifteen w
"Charles Evremonde, called Darnay," was 
nly became afflicted with a twitching in
 My Lord inquired of Mr. Stryver (the pr
ing, as it were, apart with her on the e
soon done, were probably unimagined at t
s swart forefinger, deeply engrained wit
just over the little feminine nose, the 
king at the fire, or occasionally flirti
ther, and a brother?'
ood card. Mr. Barsad, now in the employ 
 that were upon him inspired that vague 
ss on his mind than the subject of the m
blessed garnering time of harvest, was a
 shouldered back into the group, just as
"My name is Defarge, and I keep a wine-s
is note aloud, "to where his wife reside
"
 they carried him on. Reddening the snow
aginary disorders that never existed, sm
, he walked up and down through life.
ht too, beaming at all this in his littl
hority showed some disorder and surprise
ned to the owl by men-poets. But it is t
hat Mr. Lorry wanted, by saying to him w
e family, if you will not. But you must 
toine, after glaring round for a new mea
h who return. That is what he meant when
The Stryver clerk, who never assisted at
ng. Let me finish my pipe, and I shall s
or it, by holding up, as a statement of 
y men passed through his streets and und
e who had been there when this visitor e
rted away in new directions; others devo
 is!" said Mr. Cruncher to his wife, on 
ed.
d no fear of his striking at her with th
.
 Will you cause that to be done for me?"
dness, and suffering."
of court not being allowed, Jerry heard 
 where I sat with my wife--O my wife, be
 the women followed; the second woman be
?"
hoemaker's bench to pieces, while Miss P
cepting unsolicited donations from donor
spoke of him, in short, not bitterly or 
e dry waterfalls than staircases, Defarg
g by in quick succession; the Minister, 
he mouth of her only child."
arriage-door.
 the disjointed time.
old water, and vinegar, quick, I will."
you choose them?"
 and looked up at its bars, and spoke in
"in France."
 have a messenger at hand. This is to te
fully, Mr. Barsad. Take time."
ng themselves from the sin of having dra
 significance in it: "I know how hard it
ith terror as they both were, by this sp
ty years older than he was, stout, loud,
h resorted to the drinking-table without
om windows, caught up what arms they had
oreover, has the mystery about him of ha
 again. They were still fishing persever
Before it had set in dark on the night o
d."
ry long ago?"
ng crooked furrow among the populace in 
re, he noticed her.
l do something to help mamma, something 
ossip at the fountain, all faces are tur
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is 
w of the right, and then passed a hand a
"I am weary, weary, weary--worn down by 
with herbs and sprinkled with vinegar, a
te Gabelle in prison?"
"The prisoner was as open in his confide
y soon, and can't overstay my time. You 
at towers. Slight displacements of the r
ou should then be dissatisfied with it, 
and with their country declared in dange
 running at the carriage, Monsieur the M
paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided t
 also in the habit of declaiming to Mrs.
-I don't know that it is so, but I hope 
is travelling carriage (which might have
uppers those, and innocent of meat, as o
dful of their looks that they cast upon 
 he found the old gentleman walking to a
 group free from the smear of blood. Sho
d, that corner where the Doctor lived. E
and actions. Villain Foulon taken, my si
ble--you know well, my wife, it is possi
ion into the Fortress, and its inundatio
s knife was in her girdle; the drum was 
 the angels of that sphere one solitary 
on, purposely thrown out, to the day of 
y of the door and let me go to her!" Thi
ppily, it does not--thou wouldst rescue 
tone before lying down to die.
rsuing her way along the streets, came n
 not ceased, when Lucie stood stretching
life with him for that while.
ing.  Contributions to the Project Guten
ind was so full of the others, that he n
 the quiet corner in Soho, than one memo
 on one old man, but I shall have a youn
"'Now, lift me up, Doctor; lift me up. W
 the same question, for, it is always fo
live. Your father has been taken to the 
 fellow, and she married her lover, that
s the soldiers who looked at the fire; g
micably to the bosom of Saint Antoine, w
self to the prisoner's servant, and had 
and strike under it sharp and deep.
once a prisoner in the Bastille that is 
 a stool, was addressing an excited audi
rnay, to pass the door? When I ask that,
d of her life remembered, that as she pr
ile, in an ill-humour, and Charles Darna
asured changes on his hands the whole ti
"And once again listen, Jacques!" said t
"How have I done what I have done?" said
 dubiously.
n for examination to be so far off, that
 could think of.
 of its ugliness, proud of its incommodi
ont rank; I was not born there, was I?"
r, the nephew, looking at the uncle and 
al!"
ught upon him, the postmaster turned his
t decided negative, made a decided scram
being asleep. With no more definite purp
 good night, as he confronted him at his
. Lorry--the owner of the riding-coat up
ncord. Stir about there, now, for Concor
arnay now?"
re it. In the meantime, it is always pre
Mr. Lorry glanced at the work in his han
 how many accounts with Tellson's never 
rice, one finger less than the merchant 
be, or there will be. It is all the same
ll. Whenever the leader made this rattle
se from his seat, and slowly paced up an
e opinion that the young lady at present
"She knew nothing of you. She cared noth
en otherwise--'" Carton looked at the pe
und in pairs, until many of them dropped
nd I had better not take it into the pri
er? Lucie! Manette! What has happened? W
moting the free distribution of electron
spicion."
nd stood upon his feet, she dropped inse
ll to elongate, and Mr. Cruncher rose an
ly bloated, both in face and person, as 
y the case, all the world over), when Mr
open and fixed upon him, and with that l
nuff-box in his hand, slowly passed amon
 recompense to you for his mother!"
 without that. You are going to her, I h
ng with limp cards and yellow dominoes; 
ecting his daughter--_his_ daughter? We 
y sought the fire; his sympathy with his
r as he could overlay his natural self w
 them, while the Woodman and the Farmer 
ment, but not coldly, her father rested 
t, through the portraits of every Drinki
 beginning of this work.
his ruthless woman, now taking her way a
," said Mr. Lorry, angrily shaking a for
"
 not easy to be understood in these days
and scarcely audible yet, that stirred h
"No. That was another thing. It stood be
 breast when he fell asleep.
ame Defarge that they were gone. Three o
 afar off, as the little circle sat in t
haps her father's--for both have been se
 in the carriage, there is weeping, ther
er peered about there, or a distant clin
 father's.
a low voice, in English: "He has never s
th her hands touching one another in the
 power of charming this black brooding f
s over Gabelle's letter, the same person
ng a general pretence of being asleep. W
"You shall know directly. Write on; ther
ts had no great possession, and that wha
tiger and a devil; but wait for the time
d.
 in any of the many encounters in which 
anishing all emigrants, and condemning a
day, and could not complete my letter th
n board, he noticed that my father," tur
ed otherwise, was very slightly pinched 
e dark, Mr. Darnay!" he said, filling hi
irable woman in her usual place in the w
away. There was spurring and splashing t
tated again. "'I am thankful that the ti
am, far from the houses, and in the ligh
d Mr. Lorry roused the captive, and assi
lways brought me back after showing me s
nd it seemed to be an appeal to Darnay t
e heavy hours, the horses in the stables
"I must see Lorry," the Doctor repeated,
"In England."
He threw out a gold coin for the valet t
up my mind to please myself: on the whol
ur being unable to do either?"
 clenched the tighter there; and when he
was loud again.
kind, since a small part of his income w
hat you know I can do nothing else than 
eal service in that pressing emergency, 
d went away. Nor, of those who had been 
nd, and murmured, "That was very kind. T
t their racks, the dogs barked, and the 
an Mr. Cruncher did. So her manner of ma
uth, up-stairs. When my servant came int
t and waistcoat; his shirt was open at t
"Marvellous cognac this, madame!"
She kisses his lips; he kisses hers; the
to inform the jury, that the prisoner be
ees of mankind, bond and free, rich and 
uggage, they would soon overtake the coa
elle had got in those latter days--becam
at would be as final as it is lazy, did 
expenses, including legal fees.  YOU AGR
 now very unfortunate, I walked in your 
"Hush, dear! Again?" Lucie remonstrated.
ld discern without surprise, that it was
unted, he might have found _that_ shutti
ay touch the wife of an aristocrat who h
in reference to the safest dwelling-plac
utes of your company--at the office of T
to rags again. Your plate was stowed awa
ough it was not for long. But her father
," said Stryver; "and having summed up t
ntemplating the wine-shop and the street
al presence near you. Good could never c
 of shirt lay open at the throat, and sh
m in his declining years to a Home. But,
cceptation by the Tribunal was in use--t
 the uproar.
He had been talking all day, on many sub
 in whom duty was so strong; upon that c
She rolled up her knitting when she had 
le bent, and his hands clasped at his ba
ue, after many years of worthlessness) b
e standard inscription (tricoloured lett
The hands of the clock verging upon the 
ho sent her there.
"You know that your parents had no great
ition. Relieved as his mind reverted to 
"You seem to know this quarter well; tha
ite out of his reach. Even now, when I b
, and that he will very certainly be exe
ailure of his ammunition:" after which t
 me a little brandy."
 stony manner of all the three impressed
 be.'
 step, down-stairs.
g.
r's private lodging in Hanging-sword-all
, arches, and windows were. Then it soar
om the public domain (does not contain a
 pike, with grass enough in the mouth fo
tell you a good deal like." Jacques Thre
ave laid a piece of money on the counter
"Well! At any rate you know me as a diss
 and appeared to conceal themselves. As 
ndly ray as of hope or protection, direc
 anything but the one train of associati
"It was. But, I was again taken and cond
"And all I can say of it is," laughed St
"This is a strange chance that throws yo
Ever busily winding the golden thread th
 is mostly winter in fallen latitudes, t
under the quaint wig by a pair of moist 
 all its foreign and home connection, ev
 had been a spy upon Saint Antoine and D
on, and I saw in the two faces that all 
tly crossed his legs.
osition. There is no help for it."
apter XIII   The Fellow of no Delicacy  
 ruined head there.
s not a good city, at this time, for you
cent husband, but to use it in his behal
 produced and distributed Project Gutenb
him for half a guinea;" Mr. Cruncher dwe
owledge that it was inconvenient to have
ary Archive Foundation are tax deductibl
ound her, and held her. "Don't be so ter
nd the mature woman delicately bred--tha
ur days and nights had been darkened by 
 lifeless desert. And wreaths of dust we
 to him. This short examination followed
ie with her arms stretched out to him, a
isk trot, the postilions had quickened t
eman could not have said which), passed 
e, or omitted to be done, that had led t
une to undergo a long imprisonment, with
ceive them.
 instead of being privately disposed of,
d. Sessions and Old Bailey had now to su
ar.
of being ogled through the windows, by t
 have proved myself, and I know better. 
ed to them from a chaise window, and she
telling at the present time what you may
 but all deep of the one colour. And as 
y, or about his fate.
reast, as if she laid his ruined head th
 and aggravated their sharpness, had bee
"'At last she is dead?' said the elder, 
sad, I will invite him to Mr. Lorry's wi
hort, that there never more could be, fo
solutely lost. Will you render me a litt
ioner showed the people the head of the 
 task of being explicit with you. You kn
Among the many wild changes observable o
 think."
ed.
er. Then, traversing with the decided st
n the other side of it, with the bottles
o be suffocated?"
he courtyard, as he had expected, and he
his basket, but it was impossible to be 
o issue forth; but, the previous identif
parition of his own imagining. But, he s
he fire, with a promise that he should h
se at seeing another figure, but the uns
ded. Charles Evremonde, called Darnay, h
dden, as he had at first been in the exe
Every eye then turned to the five judges
It was the first time it had ever been s
keep his own counsel, and to keep his ha
and out, to do any little helpful work f
o-morrow. You are summoned for to-morrow
iss Pross. The necessity of composing he
mpany were on their feet. That somebody 
d to beguile the time."
 of any crime as we are all well assured
rection. He may have observed himself, a
ain, as if by agreement, they looked at 
 is you were," said Carton. At this, he 
 never have no good of it; he'd want all
, fraternity, or death;--the last, much 
ry to look in at Tellson's, than to look
able, I speak of causes and reasons that
 tax local and tax general, were to be p
eciate the anxiety I have felt that your
n the corner caught my sight.
forehead with his arm, as an announcemen
te still. His hurried right hand parcell
ulder, hurried out with cries of--"Live 
electronic works.  See paragraph 1.E bel
"But I would hold a pretty wager, sir, t
ht at, or stayed some passing shadow.
"I replied to the Bank, sir, that as it 
re Michaelmas Term, or in the little Chr
ows of the same height. I charge myself 
earance as not to show disfigurement lik
weird and unearthly, as if some unwonted
red energy he was sometimes a little fit
ok at anything, a large hand heavily rin
mpathy with his darling, and the heavy d
ed Stryver, drawing back. "Oh dear you, 
d up and down this hideous scene of acti
rance on his presenting himself to asser
me, composedly, "does it take to make an
r its horses in advance, and greatly fac
ver assisted at these conferences, had g
 jury to come and do likewise. That, the
ted to the King and Queen. All here, you
tention and hardship, and in cruel separ
venient to have that different order of 
nd the night before, and the night befor
of the Revolution was to scatter them al
"Yes."
too, is pointed out.
w off, and turned to her.
ong will. Yes, Sydney, I have had enough
 here. She had become familiar to me, wh
to get a sight of him; spectators in bac
 these last dregs after them with such a
ng up the hill by the side of the mail. 
ver is here too, occasionally. If it be 
Manette there is an affection so unusual
ssist at this examination, and had held 
 conscious of a bar of light across his 
s chest, and sending him flying back aga
. I had no other object than to turn a s
with a stronger concentration of keennes
n your village to-night, and be sure tha
his sad state, will submit himself to he
ur. Exquisite gentlemen of the finest br
 at table, and Miss Pross made the third
descendants, generations hence. I see he
creature," he added then, after ringing 
ers of my Chief," said The Vengeance wit
able wrecks with it. Seven faces of pris
ccomplishing many similar objects akin i
ting to the village, 'bring him fast to 
V. The Jackal
 might happen twice; whether he would ha
hose who had been greedy with the staves
"Well then, I'll tell you," said Stryver
t for my sister--"
he last. "Poor Carton! Kiss him for me!"
lways been the same moody and morose lou
"
' Those were the words I said. I remembe
t a little light thin wine, and last nig
t; that I had had recourse to no process
o I do it?"
lasping hand, and cautiously looked out 
 seen, became again charged with mist an
 that they may be in starting trim at tw
he spot for professing some insolent del
or the air, about it; what you want to d
n, in confidence, on a very curious case
, Lucie? I can't see."
o.
r generations to come.  In 2001, the Pro
owing how warped and perverted all thing
But, it beckoned him back in his sleep, 
one without any demonstrative accompanim
nsieur Manette?"
g, and precipitating the result, without
y Spy will find a place for me. Take my 
ness. My work is my business. See my saw
, submission, lamentation, succeeded one
"You have money, and can buy the means o
s sacred tears upon my face, and his sob
"Now, did you ever see him," asked the D
came to the determination of sparing the
"I thought he was rather a handsome fell
ears long after he had ceased. He motion
 in an accidental touch of his wife's el
. They seemed to be numerous, for she sh
resume thy former aspect!" Changeless an
e. "Listen, then! Who comes?"
 paying copyright royalties.  Special ru
umour just lived in the village--had a f
been drinking in the wine-shop.
it. My petition is, that a morsel of sto
a rising reputation in Paris?'
d public; and he had, as to both classes
 vacantly.
t back to Blackheath. Reins and whip and
they twisted straw round their bare legs
"A long time, I suppose," said Defarge.
 whispered.
lar, and his wild hair. This done, he we
ot going to preach."
essor of the People. Back to the Concier
ome were standing; some seated. Some wer
 had a strange sympathy with him--an ins
AD' before you go."
"I shall not go to bed till night; but I
ally pleasant and profitable, and as an 
down in this attempt to practise for pop
intention of rendering those trifling ar
Foulon taken, my mother! Miscreant Foulo
m of a great distress that had long been
 from whom I had been rent. Whether it w
nge places with the man who sent her the
 in the court, and in the midst of it, D
the Doctor had removed to the seat in th
 bidden himself away with it, when the w
alking with him in a low voice. The peni
ow with his hands--to dig this wretched 
 and golden hair there, and they looked 
f. I doubt if I should abuse the permiss
's. Naturally, therefore, a funeral with
e first place; and I don't know why I di
Mr. Lorry followed Sydney to the outer d
"For which side?"
pretend that she had seen him do a murde
ht of the year, towards nine o'clock, a 
e two other passengers were close behind
ide, too, it beat the walls with a deep,
s that it must have cost their owner, in
 I thank you very gratefully. It was tol
 Later      Chapter II     A Sight      
individual case that was not yet stated,
d her superb moral endowments.
oughened forehead was very intent upon h
yes and with an altered manner of breath
 of each nostril. In those two compressi
farge, raising her eyebrows with a cool 
old in the hand that slowly released and
ith that occasional look which had a ten
atisfaction to those behind them, and th
 and hidden in my heart--if it ever had 
th you. You've been at Doctor Manette's 
within them.
rustled in her seat.
"She never missed before," says a knitti
, one cold time, when the hail drifted h
ain.
kill for his life.'
y, nakedness, hunger, thirst, sickness, 
e midst of many soldiers. He is bound as
vertake the coach, and, passing it and p
ly did, but came out of doors again, and
 As the smoke cleared, leaving an awful 
y, busy concocting the punch, "are such 
 named 98-8.txt or 98-8.zip ***** This a
 was a stool, and table, and a straw bed
th offers to donate.
prepare himself in vain; perhaps the eff
 plane-tree together. Never did the moon
, licking, and even champing the moister
the evening when he and I first encounte
isagreeable word, Charles Darnay request
 the appearance of Saint Antoine; the im
whom many eyes are directed, will be unc
ociated files of various formats will be
y. At last, swooping at a street corner 
on't expect to--what would do that," ans
s, some vague misgiving in them that thi
 hold his poor ignorant soul and his poo
 tobacco, where certain soldiers and pat
rden. If he had preserved any definite r
through the barrier, and gained us news 
"If she don't hear the roll of those dre
 so, than to live. It has died in a mome
bly with his usual demeanour, received s
"You speak so feelingly and so manfully,
rted, and forgive me. Heaven bless you!"
 her, God will raise up friends for her,
it known to Charles Darnay that the king
h was on his left. About on a level with
berg is a registered trademark, and may 
er the faces of all the world that we kn
hen clasped them on her breast, as if sh
rs, and young men, Give us the blood of 
or that evening. They crowded to the gra
 on her breast like a child.
s imprisonment, release, and history, as
in the mouth for all Saint Antoine to da
t, the Old Bailey was famous as a kind o
 and stood beside him in the yard.
he said he was) to find that madame was 
teers fired on the mob, and nobody thoug
The hours went on as he walked to and fr
s would be delivered over to the great d
e gloomy tile-paved staircase, Monsieur 
icular friends, inspired as one man and 
 of being a mother have arisen; and it w
oldier's.
ge.
 he bore for that function; a third, pre
?"
 the State, they kept far from its frown
 'and not being so fortunate as to find 
tting up before it. Its destination was 
th a gentleman of the Bank, so good as t
 it was certain the prisoner had, for lo
ther, and his pride was touched besides.
 famished and naked, they ran out with s
t all he knows. There is another spy com
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEAS
 key. She then sat down on the stairs a 
t o' this, never no more will I do it, n
ion had not extended to the mournful cad
r France shook the rags of the scarecrow
"Judged!" repeated the farrier, swinging
ah Cruncher, sitting on his stool in Fle
s not of my seeking, recollect. Now, you
iss Pross threaded her way along the nar
uld think, why he may be. It's a dreadfu
 daughter did at last appear, and Miss P
oy. The only consideration that appeared
ing George the Third;" Miss Pross curtse
 to the end of. He had a strong idea tha
isted. "I've seen him. Dead, is he?"
erkenwell. There were solitary patches o
ust now referred to?"
 floor, and the pure water in the villag
ht."
 the window, and a voice called to the d
nd few," said Doctor Manette. "It comes 
 and was equably cheerful. To him, now e
which I am anxious to be instructed. I m
r resuming this conversation by so much 
isses hers; they solemnly bless each oth
gh the stony streets, the tumbrils now j
eneration my place was a blank."
deadly embrace--Madame Defarge had but f
sky.
hard lives they live, Jacques. Am I righ
r, squaring himself; "I have less need t
?"
two steps, and came to your senses in a 
. "I do not doubt your loving Lucie; you
to her friend The Vengeance:
er home.
ts fogs atmospheric, and fogs legal, and
 or damaged disk or other medium, a comp
he Marquis petrified, a skinny finger wo
t it is."
 against herself in any of the reckoning
r rousing those within; uneasy rushes of
 long, dusty roads--the solid stone chat
nd repent in action--not in words. I wan
"Never!" said Miss Pross, who understood
 they had been there. And so exactly was
atening and dark on the child, that her 
Mr. Lorry either detected, or fancied it
whom he had stationed in the light of th
men, thank God! I feel his sacred tears 
he voice he would recommend under the ci
him, so that he did his duty. On the opp
ouse towards four o'clock. She had some 
ve one. That, Virtue, as had been observ
"--wasted, my child--should not be waste
rt or disgrace, made it the life he was 
rn kind of coquetry, "I'll use it!"
e streets and kill him.
redress; and tortured by seeking assista
"--or twenty years hence--"
id the Marquis.
ugh the untimely cold and wet, among imp
He studied much, slept little, sustained
"I had no intention, in the words I used
"I was happy," said Mr. Lorry, "to be en
s if it had been a human breast, and cou
s good mender of roads, called Jacques. 
 have made up my mind. And now, Sydney, 
 honest tradesman's kicking off his clay
 pleaded Not Guilty to an indictment den
ar of the city arose like muffled drums 
sily as in business-like Old England; bu
her shrill tones. "Who has seen her? The
n of his daily routine of employment, Mr
falsely, traitorously, and otherwise evi
so much your junior, whether he can unde
x.
"I can hear," said Miss Pross, seeing th
s of travelling, a disorganised country,
btfully smiled, as the carriage rolled a
re officers to guard the soldiers, but n
s to please her, unbent exceedingly; so 
d the hill-top, that its occupant was st
e of the fifty-two were brought in after
he anguish of his daughter, which must b
 immature plans of last week, and the ev
pped up from head to foot, the room had 
ed his wife and child to his care. And h
hild's laugh, and the Divine friend of c
r, which must be a dreadful anguish to h
"Much influence around him, has that Doc
"Good!" said the sleeper, rising on his 
ld you have?"
ed Mr. Lorry; and through his absent man
hinted Mr. Lorry.
nd.
 light of Freedom shining on him.
tion to the terms of this agreement befo
s wot I would respectfully offer to you,
pe itself into a purpose, Mr. Barsad."
. Lorry, and Miss Pross, were left quite
heads.
n the streets of people speeding away to
ter, so, Sydney had a swamped life of it
s this doubt and the uneasiness it somet
Yes. By birth.
nt through the list, making a similar sh
leeding hands to force stones and bricks
The sweet scents of the summer night ros
een so full of business all day, that we
look about him. Jacques Three was nearly
sure of his manner he was unaltered, exc
fficiate "frizzled, powdered, in a gold-
 circulated in Soho with vigorous freedo
 rapturously. "Ah, my cherished!" cried 
ow you are true."
rned and rode away without entering the 
gy, for any tidings of him, and all quit
Doctor Manette pressed his hand, hastene
f, he supplied the link that Mr. Lorry w
ydney, that you brought to bear upon the
e man brought no check into the face, or
sume), I had sat by the side of the bed 
"
y you? Are they very like each other?"
ped his soiled hand upon the joker's dre
to four, always signalling, sometimes wi
nder the influence of this passing affli
carried every morning to beneath the ban
rnished with tenderer spikes, and whose 
In a very few minutes the waiter came in
 in this direction, we followed, in the 
e text of his order (altered from the or
oliests to the crowd of worshippers in t
nal popularity, and the clearness of his
ting their doom in the prisons, and stil
s and moves on; the third comes up. Cras
acknowledged, with his troubled hand at 
for liberty or life, and delivered over 
, and had a quantity of bright shawl twi
ad. Some passing thought of the infamy a
rth no more than that."
, there to communicate with a gentleman 
ess hungry, and in all ways to suffer le
hat between you and Miss Manette there i
d in a ribbon at the back of his neck; m
e adjured her, as they would meet in Hea
rg-tm electronic works, and the medium o
went out. Madame Defarge knitted with ni
tress in one direction, and it needs a c
s to lay especial stress on the discharg
 his wife and child, he foreshadowed the
or and got in; not at all assisted by hi
upations. A disturbed and doleful mind h
side and to that, now crumble in and clo
of wonders to me."
emanded Stryver, perceptibly crestfallen
"Yes, I know you, Citizen Doctor."
 face, that it looked as though it had p
 and influence of Doctor Manette may sta
The House approached Mr. Lorry, and layi
s power seemed to grow of getting at its
 great windows behind him in an impure m
"What," said Mr. Cruncher, varying his a
his care, and dwelling on the same topic
 in gaol and been forgotten, and two had
When he was gone, and in the course of a
"No," said Defarge.
ght across his face, he looked up; and w
il to know, Doctor Manette, I who have s
pted, saw the King take it, in his carri
ged that he should go back to her, and c
y! Would you not?"
He said it bitterly, and filled up his g
 of his fair wife which had had eight we
ere armed more or less, and were crowded
great pride and care.
ear me through a very little more, all y
 but had remained behind in the churchya
he village guttering out, the people hap
 he had been the prisoner's friend, but,
omen's lace and silk and ribbon, with th
not estimate the distance at that time, 
dark, thin, long and sallow face, aquili
passionate wife of the Marquis; but only
1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, d
t 809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, U
he ingenuity of the mental torture; that
s represented in a flourishing condition
"And I have no doubt," said Mr. Lorry, "
he jury. The same determined patriots an
g fearfully round at the locked room, "m
remembered, and regarded his new visitor
 you seen him, to your certain knowledge
"No?"
 my child's sake! She will put her hands
 my business here."
siness. A crown to drink. I may read thi
e played for desperate stakes. Let the D
the same breath, the head of his fair wi
. Shall we ever see such a night again, 
onstantly haunted, his life was very new
This time, Mr. Lorry feigned to go out w
a very little quantity of hair: not more
 itself to and fro, and moaning. They sp
What I stand to, is, that he knows well 
king voice. This man, whom he had seen u
g from your unreserved conversation, and
consideration that her brother Solomon s
 Doctor," said the other three.
No; you have been the ward of Tellson's 
ervice. He had worn all his rust off lon
he inherited them, and left them to the 
The mender of roads was now coming to hi
en, and two had already been guillotined
aimed; there is scarcely a hope that any
who was conversant with French literatur
ner, the manner in which he said these w
tle wig--Lorry--of the bank of Tellson a
nce with his ostentatiously rough dress,
erciliously at the client, and nodded in
thing. Her inducement to come to me, rel
the neighbouring beach, or the specks of
 and put her lips to his; then, leaned o
l seem long to me, while I wait for her 
means delicate, but the stock of wine sm
 implored the king, the queen, the court
on one knee beside the insensible figure
ely round the room, shook his head, and 
VIII. A Hand at Cards
ontended with himself that it was imposs
epeated the Marquis, with an inquiring s
or not returning, and every minute's del
 instruments of correction, these gentle
aunting our superiority to secrecy and s
ctured as drinking in the wine-shops, cr
, with the greatest composure. "Do you p
the old haggard, faded surface of face h
eek, and the events of the week followin
ual efforts and degrees unclosed a littl
ficulty in scrapings of soot and charcoa
nce, and so strange his fixed look when 
 the Seine, denoted the approach of dark
 some eighteen years before, or were a S
cessity have resolved it; but he was by 
eep them separate, citizen? You know the
 feel that it is a pleasant thing for a 
e definite purpose than to escape the ha
ace and gladden you. O Miss Manette, whe
ir, that as it was considered necessary,
ds Saint Antoine.
an."
 were sleeping close together in their d
een the two towers?"
But, as the fingers went, the eyes went,
ed out of the pressed grape of Monsieur 
ather in any suitor's favour, would outw
om and looking in, he perceived that the
ear side."
, and with his forefinger drew a cross i
rung out of his breast, "it _is_ a long 
when his lord was angry.
ry Stuart who sold it.
ow better), still I am a tenderer sort o
d put on the cloak and other wrappings, 
ing on like ghosts in white, while the c
nding gaols; and in the streets along wh
red from the original by only a pronoun,
He occupied rooms in the Bank, in his fi
"It is against rule," answered the first
ued Mr. Lorry. "As a man of business, I 
es, to take off his hat to scratch his h
, and seems to tell who sat here yesterd
 not your proper occupation. Think, dear
ques Two, Jacques One Thousand, Jacques 
r was out of spirits, and out of temper,
nd in London. There was no way through i
n Paris, that we have actually a run of 
aginary beds of flowers in a garden; and
ll night; but I want a bedroom, and a ba
ss upon his back. Ha, ha! That was well 
"Eh well!" returned madame. "Almost."
but was young. Her manner was one of pas
es, "you are right. But he will perish; 
"Go and see him when he has a good batch
 La Force. That, in the prison he had fo
the worst world worldly, with sensual ey
 rendered Suspected, by my own sister. J
dame Defarge--who leaned against the doo
ead, and put the rosy lips to his, and f
ars sat looking fixedly, by turns, at Mr
lish, and render them into sound English
t I should go to France, and that as I a
der as he was going away, caused him to 
e puddles with little mugs of mutilated 
by nothing else.
evitable, would have been one of absolut
r every instant, Mr. Jarvis Lorry twice 
 streams of wine that started away in ne
hich a momentary gleam had driven from h
ect Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundatio
The Foundation's principal office is loc
belated women few, and when his affairs 
ything whatsoever, new or old, against t
bsent during business hours, unless upon
ful heart."
to bring my love--even mine--between you
, and her father, and herself, and her o
, and he knew he would be summoned some 
r of Paris, picking up French, and Frenc
l weight of the establishment.
 broad rivers, and in the sand of the se
ough to divine that the banker would not
llson's. He was detained two hours. When
Madame complied with a polite air.
t of the School of Medicine, when a carr
ht when he stood before the prison of La
"Nothing human could have held life in t
, Carton would wait alone by the fire fo
 the sharpening-stone, were men stripped
Little need, in presence of that tribuna
ty of the brain, and by substituting, as
hange to have come over the Doctor; as i
ke a man who had been drowned and filled
 the Aristocrat had drawn a blank."
now?"
, in this one respect, such a mystery to
wers were for ever lost to him, and what
Lorry. "Do you know me?"
"Now you know all about it, Syd," said M
, of the work in its original "Plain Van
 the rest. Sounding Mr. Cruncher, and fi
e a lot of things you can do with Projec
eaven in its mercy to restore him so soo
inutes.
was very difficult to master.
gh. This, in combination with the liftin
to be audible. Several doors were opened
revailing. Looking at the Jury and the t
Tellson's Bank, established in the Saint
pon an elderly gentleman and a young lad
the fire and in the smoke, for the sea c
e to look in from the windows, knew Mada
 business whatever, sometimes unaccounta
o his long lingering agony, would always
 were lucky to save their skins and bone
t to bestow, O Guillotine!
rticular attention, for I had seen commo
"The utmost good that I am capable of no
, there was a little girl with a mother,
the awfulness, even of Death itself, is 
 lost no time, and since then, I have se
e stained red.
to bear upon them, and slowly and heavil
d of man was seen to go into it, all kin
walk on a little ahead into the mist and
ibbons. At which juncture, he exclaimed,
 by the turnkey's. Their three heads had
"It was under his hand, and I soothed hi
"Sir, I thank you indeed. I thank you ve
ong way from Paris.
ou. If there were--Charles Darnay, if th
not?"
 in appearance. The plain dark dresses, 
e was tied--The Vengeance and Jacques Th
 by, Monseigneur had squeezed it and wru
ng as ever spoken words had been in his 
ething not quite so good as itself. But 
He turned the dialogue to that point, an
Quick, friend, quick!"
 secret, even from my wife; and this, to
timony. Monsieur the Marquis indicates m
"You left Paris yesterday, sir?" he said
les, my father, I should have been quite
rs in England?
formed Doctor Manette that the prisoner 
our life was not your own."
his own happiness, sensible of the bligh
, of the honour of your noble name, I su
, with a hungry face.
 them, one man with a craving face, and 
At last, after several hours, when sundr
 moment.
Book the Second--the Golden Thread
l put her hands together and pray you to
 opened the door. He had his slippers on
t always had a great dining-table in it 
wo great flaring flambeaux, and in the l
le young, shivered at every corner, pass
tion. If you have, don't expect me to be
--standing side by side, both reflected 
himself in the submission, of mortal fea
ng for himself and for them.
time." Then he added, raising his voice,
convenient size, a rope and chain, and o
e universal, both among men and women.
p pointed under the carriage. All his fe
nd looked at him.
de--perhaps taking his arm--it was a pur
r."
w, if it wasn't for the pain in 'em, whi
comprehended as to mistake for weakness.
"What do you make, madame?"
 to the right and to the left into most 
old Sunday under the dear old plane-tree
 it well, but do you know it? In your ow
 look out at the little window. Jarvis L
fter looking doubtfully at it, two or th
an iron pot-lid by him as a projectile f
 I know?"
, than one memorable evening when the Do
that is, will not be long unknown to you
ed her up, under any circumstances. But,
 have foreseen the events of a few days.
is strength to bear on that hand and it 
 response is, that I have acted for an e
"But there are no such decrees yet?"
 wholly unprepared for. He gave him his 
omewhat uneasily.
called La Guillotine," was hardly known 
ow vanished fields. As a consequence, co
A faint murmur arose about the house fro
he matter, that although Sydney Carton w
joker of an extremely, not to say wolfis
s not the face she knew, this is not a v
iss, moreover," proceeded Mr. Cruncher, 
of his voluptuous bedroom, looking again
it?"
He did not take the identification as a 
n fingers before his face to represent b
hers looking on, before the elder said:
ou hear?"
on! My husband died of want; so many die
lness, and then he had even suffered, an
t doesn't need an interpreter to explain
Monseigneur, a petition."
e assault, but it was not true. Swear it
ue confusion of houses and cathedral sho
then, I have seen the spy. He confirms m
great cathedral door between the two tow
man, he had imprisoned no man; he was so
e happiest frame. Now, I hear Somebody's
, but on other days persisted in taking 
He stopped in the act of swinging himsel
 two terrace flights of steps the rain r
en. One cannot help thinking, having had
ttack began.
 then all cast down their eyes and sat s
can this be! Hide Charles. Save him!"
d worn out Heaven and earth as well as i
g of the great gate rang again, and a lo
en. I admit that _I_ am a spy, and that 
no better man. This new denunciation wil
that you will ascertain it for yourself 
en shown to him that night, he might hav
ddressing Monsieur Defarge, "that many o
gone, or Saint Antoine was on the watch 
t Gutenberg-tm License for all works pos
 For a few moments there was a pause, an
orning. Do you promise?"
ys, 'To me! Bring that rascal!' My faith
these points outside the Doctor's bedroo
It was remembered afterwards that when h
d and surprised, to take his favourite i
 of La Force.
st, they were not harsh nor cruel. Even 
t you; I was praying for you."
 me in, and drive away."
Every eye was turned to the jury. The sa
a silent protest against the delusion in
cept at the trial, of her ever hearing h
race," returned Defarge. "Extermination.
"I say a horse at a canter coming up, Jo
"Where?"
hite pocket-handkerchief, and other symb
urned, and rose, and showed themselves t
tra wet-towelling to pull him through th
, by the presence of his father in the f
As before, he repeated, "Out?"
ew her with a blameless though an unchan
uld kindly mention now, for instance, wh
his right by turns to rub his chin, pull
so.
 Monsters imagined since imagination cou
 her appealing hand on Madame Defarge's 
Doctor lived. Ever busily winding the go
He felt his wrist held closer, and he st
er, altogether ignorant of me, and uncon
about? Is there danger of another? Could
 way, and to remove him--for a while at 
e wildness, or softened the grimness, of
Author: Charles Dickens
at_ the low ceiling, and pointed as if h
"You scarcely seem to like your hand," s
ult of all; but, remembering his old Sun
ion of these objects, and of the four wa
rm her first duty, and, whatever else sh
that I have to-night for loving you bett
ed tears there; but, twenty places in th
aid Mr. Cruncher, ruminating, with his m
you follow the terms of this agreement a
Republican committees, now turnkey, now 
en, I do not offer my testimony. Monsieu
o be the same influence exactly.
s waking thoughts, which was very diffic
ther to draw upon him, and has fallen by
ll our sympathy for Monsieur her father,
 with the three passengers shut up in th
f setting them right, half of the half-d
swered Monsieur Defarge.
rent of impression that never ceased to 
red:
have had unformed ideas of striving afre
oor, as if there had been a struggle.
e Devil!"
 making no noise on the floor, he moved 
cy
ore his pardon for having never for his 
yself, and I naturally have a strong and
nowledge, and his vigilance and skill in
ight prove to be worth, and no customers
pectable woman with a little property--s
 to be very jealous, but he also knew he
hen arose in the case. The object in han
gh Republican; the woman, evidently Engl
tion of a second meal; this was administ
 cost and with almost no restrictions wh
 fee is      owed to the owner of the Pr
"To-night," said the man, putting the pi
s; but, I had looked to them, to see tha
ined to be imprinted on the memory of th
r curious contagion of looking expectant
c greetings lavished on himself as a not
 be a lion. Stryver was rich; had marrie
d guilt of his business might have remai
lish fancy, but you asked for it. When I
ch times, and as they sat side by side, 
"They had conferred together until the l
ing summed up three leading reasons for 
; I present myself here, to beg a little
 is supreme. Evremonde, we are pressed."
ppointment!"
sential to the dignity of the position. 
es ready to his hand. Both resorted to t
five or six? Perhaps. Of what profession
ng among mortals.
ble to Lucie, in a hushed murmur--like t
table to some influence of mine--this is
 how old are you?"
e forty feet high," said they, grimly; a
riminals got there, and those were alway
t is your business."
 women variously armed, but all armed al
Mr. Carton.
es, own father to yourself, was you call
 were not in a savoury neighbourhood, an
n the ground.
east of the chase flying from hunters, h
t, and the very bones of it seemed trans
id Monsieur, calmly looking out.
se lists from the drawer of the prisoner
he stairs.
rth, and what would lie there, lost and 
"You have been a long time coming," said
llowance for that circumstance. Mr. Darn
ted cat. At last, it began to get about,
oved, as these words were spoken, so as 
above: don't suffer for me. A parting bl
ink your health or the Old Un's."
, striking in to explain; "there are fre
Miss Pross only shook her head and wept 
, or any files containing a part of this
"As long as you don't know whether they 
 a designation; but you are not. You wan
rton, musing, and not appearing to notic
ed with, had died on the scaffold.
 down, and taking him gravely apart, "th
ns, and coaxed her to lay her drooping h
 as they passed in to Tellson's, Jerry t
ss, and dislike, than was comportable wi
aking her way along the streets. Of a st
t each in a different way; the lion for 
e dry with want! O mother of God, this F
isible existence, one by one; leisurely,
ll things have worked together as they h
he present time is ill-conwenient for ex
if in incidental imitation of some few o
r to me: because they stood at the top o
Why not? the President desired to know.
 of Doctor Manette. He had been there of
, and yet no Hundreds of people. Mr. Car
le term of life) from Tellson's side of 
s of a daughter who never existed, strik
 disquiet, but still without continuous 
rge, under his yet dark eyebrows and his
or a time of action, and that they had s
her occupant, that forenoon, than the ge
to him coherently, though slowly.
eved them over.
ot much alike in that particular. Indeed
wn.
 scarcely worth mentioning; but, is it y
The miserable shop of the wood-sawyer wa
ead-dress of Madame Defarge. Two men had
alise of clothes ready), and so he emerg
ining a copy upon request, of the work i
rles Darnay, at sight of whom he laid as
 door, looking after her with admiration
ain in 'em, which was me and which someb
e stone faces of the chateau, lion and h
 I rendered it; I am speaking of the pas
n a garden; and his efforts to control a
r was--without it."
"What is the matter?"
f against their swollen account of cruel
, and he had secreted a valise of clothe
 tiptoe and in a low voice, "withdraws; 
 swiftly as a change will sweep over a h
Gaspard was exalted to that height of so
f the glass could ever have rendered bac
hing. "He shall be registered to-morrow.
, in ten years' time enriching them with
ch better," Mr. Lorry said it; perhaps n
itable figure. The burning of the body (
plaining eyes in which there is so much 
berg-tm collection will remain freely av
ressed. He knew her to be so, without lo
on."
expect me to keep your secret. Tellson's
 pistol. Lying hidden at her waist, was 
her wild, strained, seared marking about
"Without doubt. Where is your wife, Evre
iss Pross, shaking her head. "Touch that
a blow in her life.
ndon window.
ence with him in the tiresome articles o
t desirable to be met, rushing down a na
d out to him, and with that old look of 
ay, "A life you love."
ut for the yet lingering consideration t
"Remember these words to-morrow: change 
omer who had dropped in while he stepped
 prisoner under the Bank roof. His own p
"I have."
e shadow struck across the church, acros
alive, or the poor mother's shock had ki
e citizeness?"
ell.
ot present myself elsewhere until all wa
rnay was established in England as a hig
ep, and all the shops shutting up before
Then madame, with her teeth set, tied a 
e little street, bereft of horses, and w
raps of the day's journey that came unbi
surgeon, who within the last year or two
 the position. The position appeared by 
 Revolution as if it were the only harve
m as she worked. She was in a front row,
runcher conceived the luminous idea of r
n the first day, and resolved merely to 
n in his native country, an official amo
d against resignation. If, for a moment,
hat Sydney Carton knew nothing of. Throw
em; put your will to them. Quick!"
ys turned, doors clashed, footsteps pass
l known him in his present character. Fo
 thanks him.
"Don't look!" cried Mr. Lorry, absolutel
hief so much spoken of and so difficult 
me and friends in such a tone before lyi
o know it better. I am so profoundly int
a fire. I had supposed that it must be l
do you write in the public streets? Is t
soured, and that he grumbled, "but I am 
 alteration, modification, or additions 
 particularly dear friend of mine. Pray 
ssion, that was the wonder of it, Monsei
by her feverish apprehensions, she could
spy repeated; with not quite so much con
arter well; that is to say, better than 
ed himself by twice pacing the pavements
set upon the birds of the finest feather
re now, I am not so hot upon it as that 
"And what do you suppose, you conceited 
 asked.
 been the bridegroom.
his wife to induce her to admit it, "tha
ny circumstances. But it really is doubl
ve you, Mr. Carton? Can I not recall you
ements of the raging sea, made by the fa
ver his eyes. He had eyes that assorted 
seemed to have nothing less on his mind 
her waist, was a sharpened dagger. Thus 
is hungry mouth; "it is not quite like a
 it--not visible and presented, but indi
d and stands with his hand on the coach 
onseigneur that day.
 disturbed. "Wot can she have been a tak
 man who had spoken, was flat and tame i
u would be amused, Mr. Darnay."
n to say, in a genteel manner, before he
e of the bar. The way out of court lay i
 struggled until the time had gone by, a
er Cly, swore his way through the case a
 sea raging and thundering on its new be
 bread; at the sausage-shop, in every de
losing himself again. That alone wouldn'
oke was, "Come out and listen to the Eve
t depends upon how you dewelop your tale
sly looked out again. A man, so besmeare
rately left the shop. "There is nothing 
hat do you think of this?"
 and trusting in a happier future; I loo
uch wrecks of faces, that he more than o
er when I saw her," argued Madame Defarg
 sea that rushed in, as if there were an
"You are the young lady just now referre
ave declined him, as the most dangerous 
said Carton. "_I_ ask no questions and m
ailed them when they heard the thronging
Brutus of Antiquity, not far from the Na
wn?"
"You work hard, madame," said a man near
m the desolate shore, all turning on him
"What d'ye mean? What are you hooroaring
dering what to do, he almost hid his fac
"Is there any noise in the streets now?"
way--have affected me with something as 
! Good night, Englishman."
ll the constancy and fervour of her pres
work. In one narrow, dark, and dirty str
e, and faults, and miseries were gently 
re here."
sky in one direction only. Monsieur Gabe
 you. How does she look?"
ere worn on breasts from which the Cross
d off his head comes!"
 chemist whistled softly, as he read it.
e traveller had travelled far, and his f
the letter?" said Mr. Lorry. "You know w
d up to be a man, wot will errand you, m
are the more insolent, and it is the nea
n the place, however, as if they could h
nd nothing more."
 it was, "Take me to her." Sometimes it 
 seized her round the waist in both her 
ed back from the hill, the shadow struck
ver been able to bear the thought of put
--she had a fear of my going, though I h
r two hands to her lips, and kissed them
 us, and the clouds are flying after us,
dents to know better. She said, however,
gination, there was a perception of the 
 go down into the village, roused him.
ne of pain and horror.
"You dogs!" said the Marquis, but smooth
his last glassful of wine with as comple
mself: "Jerry, you honest tradesman, the
 wot I only hope with all my heart as Mr
ap of old feathery wood-ashes on the hea
rt for Paris from here?"
it connected with the shock?"
the cask at Defarge's wine-shop door, th
ittered with papers, where there was a b
ifficulty. I design to secrete it in the
, frowning. "I take no answer from you. 
 of their language as of her own, if she
host of stateliness, the ghost of elegan
 examine it, very closely. In a hole in 
hat stillness seems to be fixed and unch
 presence, who, with a keenly observant 
"Hundreds," said Miss Pross.
 of the hearse as could by any exercise 
 the group: "I am glad to have brought y
"'I do not want it examined,' he answere
d the gaoler, looking at the written pap
e shoes ever since."
isoner's counsel, who had a great bundle
 easier to comprehend in my own mind, th
ucie, never refer to the shoemaking time
e me in at the cathedral, at Three o'Clo
ced to go faster?" asks Lucie, clinging 
"
to her through the streets to slake her 
ed her sitting, and came to speak to him
r hand, you should be satisfied with it,
nberg-tm trademark, but he      has agre
g round as I resumed my seat, I found bo
along behind me, driven very fast. As I 
 very like the prisoner?"
enth Louis--was conspicuous in their ric
 good-natured impulse and business appea
aken us back by another road? Is not thi
oing on the side which Mr. Lorry took, a
he other; and I must not be silent, and 
"She had laid her head upon my shoulder,
s on which her power had failed; but the
ey to him, "that the name and influence 
"But my dear!" repeated madame, nodding 
use-top, he displayed pike and cap, as a
, six days, seven days, eight days, nine
 the Minister, the State-Projector, the 
ung man with your fortune to make, you a
 to persuade to some restraint. Only las
imes, resting on a stone seat: in either
of a rising desire to strike the life ou
no matter how far off.
 call the man? You know all the men of t
Miss Manette, "as to leave us here. You 
due occasion."
Notwithstanding an unusual flow of compa
e chain with his blue cap. Some half-doz
sible. Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or
uld you particularly like a man who rese
swered, smiling.
isordered, the prisoner made an effort t
d release me. My fault is, that I have b
s friend in his present aspect: he had n
again, the Fancy Ball was lighted up at 
pon her warm young breast, and love it b
ped in the middle of the street under a 
d towards the living of the poorer priso
The valet had put her away from the door
ensible traveller.
xtravagantly coarse contrasted with sorr
is flambeau-bearer going on before, went
re us from interruption, I do not doubt 
the forfeit of his life. That this corre
th your shameful impositions upon trades
coat, and took another paper from it, "t
His cold white head mingled with her rad
e Saint Antoine suburb. It was not diffi
ee that there Cly that day, and you see 
, yet only as the liveliest gratitude an
quis!" said a ragged and submissive man,
 on his house-top alone, and looked in t
ose trifling articles of remembrance inv
n the stairs a few moments to breathe an
igneur made edifying spaces of barbarous
ious backs and ends of houses peeped at 
d time. There was yet an upper staircase
ng reasons for complete success, he says
1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemni
 from a phenomenon so low and unaccounta
e you so adorn--the dearest ties that wi
mself, who modestly concealed his spiky 
The person or entity that provided you w
m a stinking little black courtyard, and
eral relapses into business-absorption, 
p and down, that he never would have got
d to him (for the moment, or for good), 
Monsieur the Marquis in his travelling c
, succeeded one another; so did varietie
d to his seat by the fire. He had opened
assed between them. When coffee had been
es was ready at the Bank door, and Jerry
ding, copying, displaying, performing, d
ney; then struck at me with a whip. But 
1.F.
ich the perspiration had started afresh 
 doll, swoons within a yard or two of a 
.
 to give his spikes free play, "he's a t
"Are all these footsteps destined to com
f of the half-dozen had become members o
s one thing. The time will come, the tim
h noontide, when two dusty men passed th
's part, the mender of roads, once so su
 nothing in the straw, Jacques?"
specting physician of three prisons, and
"You approve?"
steps of the people who are to come into
closed, the ancient clerks came out, the
."
ast for ever. Then, they are the more in
ccasion, when the wigged gentleman who h
ong while, and I have made shoes ever si
 about it but what Ladybird tells me."
Though he said the last words, with a sl
uick, I will."
ough, to fill the courtyard: not more th
m time to time glanced anxiously at the 
ere stopped at the gate, sent to prison,
the same possessions as the King, the fi
 change of emphasis, the words:
"I am doubtful," said Mr. Cruncher, hesi
hould I be astonished?"
th no depth in the colour or form, and m
d. Upon the top of the bank was a low br
r," said Sydney. "Mr. Barsad."
have brought him to himself."
strusted and disliked her, and his influ
ing dominoes, three standing by the coun
"Give me your hand. She will be home dir
riven slave and the yoked ox may, its le
e on board in the dead of the night?"
"Had they conferred together?"
hat untimely hour?"
utside the gate had often drowned the pr
ion I have not been so degraded but that
 into the courtyard, got into his carria
put up a prayer that she might ever be a
g conversation with Miss Pross, and reme
d. I know, Doctor Manette--how can I fai
bility. I must act for myself, therefore
e middle of the night when this place is
ws what the compromising consequences wo
rles out of all danger; I told Lucie so.
ring, the shoemaker of the garret in Par
farrier struck a blow upon them with his
 their feathers for your own advantage, 
t this!" he said. Mr. Lorry nodded his c
ose times stopped at nothing, and was a 
Rendered in a manner desperate, by her s
it into the prison."
d being put open that the air might pass
the room where a heavy slumber had overt
rent Young Jerry from him of the previou
etters: National Property. Republic One 
n secret."
"Yes," returned Defarge.
up the conference; "and now we shall hav
o the chalk cliffs, like a marine ostric
rawn tightly over my mouth from behind, 
 who looked at the ceiling, stared at hi
They fished with a spade, at first. Pres
orthy one; but he observed it as a curio
little new observation and judgment expr
"No, you mayn't. I'm a going--as your mo
ve said, from anything he saw, what eith
ther, dearest. No other man in all this 
 wrath--the listener could feel how whit
hem over.
tefully acknowledged in France on his pr
cry," said the gentle Mr. Lorry.
 his hand, gazing in his earnest face.
Thus Miss Pross, with a shake of her hea
e poor father's account. I know this mus
s might look down at it as it fell. The 
 They were always 'My husband, my father
HE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND 
professionally, and referring to an imag
g him wrapped up as those two passengers
 chair, and stammered, "What do you mean
"Eighteen years!" said the passenger, lo
nt, is the spy of Pitt, the treacherous 
d the spy, airily, but discomfited too: 
s perpetually hovering about his lips, w
ntirely under her own superintendence.--
h grave grounds as had just now been sug
e of our documents were seized or destro
isinterestedly, but with the interested 
s (which fortunately was a small one) ag
"Very willingly," said the mender of roa
He closed the lattice again with a flutt
selle.' It's not long, you see, guard. J
"That she thinks he has."
t any time put any separation between he
d, and the chemist said:
With wonderful quickness, and with a str
hus made, you have nothing to fear from 
ed, he became worried. He abandoned that
eir prisoner pass (for it is a solitary 
nce had a palpable effect upon her husba
ocious murderer, and to-morrow of a wret
 your different way. Marry. Provide some
ance, and turned back to the gate again 
an, if I can make it plain--can I use no
n for having bestowed her on him. By-and
until the regular breakfast-hour, and sh
remarkable one.
iterary Archive Foundation at the      a
With a roar that sounded as if all the b
, and for me! Good gentlemen, thank God!
nuff from his fingers as if he had shake
ow much my mind has gone on this; but, o
gan to tell her a story of a great and p
I once knew so well. Hush! Let us draw f
He sat, with his hands in his pockets an
 awe-stricken.
id you to do for Charles's sake, is the 
or grass were undistinguishable from one
coach, but it was of the highest importa
re in torment. When great masses of ston
f that could easily be. There has been a
ing that refection, had dropped into a d
wledgments?"
irded round his wrist. In this state the
"Good night, Mr. Carton," said the man o
de in close upon his horse's flanks, and
 who sat knitting, knitting, that they t
id Jerry, more hoarsely than before.
it opened, a man said in a low voice, in
"You know me, my dear friend? Think agai
nything that recalls a beloved head that
elf-abnegating way, as one who shook for
him. They seemed to be waiting for somet
"Now and then," said Miss Pross.
 shouting and weeping and sentimental co
 of Monseigneur.
"Yes, sir. Tellson's Bank in London, sir
ydney's friendly reassurances, adequatel
d herself in both ways, at his side unde
t purpose?"
 commended her to Heaven, and humbly tha
spoke of Lucie, and of her father then p
uch put out."
tlest solicitude--had made a litter for 
ady, that she heard him say, "A life you
el, and his eye on the horseman, answere
e and gone twice, and was again sitting 
t, sir--and let that father go into the 
mbination, had read that article of war 
e had got him!
 and might have the power to persuade to
 Bailey."
ick arrival of another man, for whom the
as otherwise quite self-possessed, bowed
me. Don't shrink from anything I say. I 
 happy and busy, made him resolute not t
ill knitted on with the steadfastness of
ine-shop again and taking counsel with i
Nothing would induce him to speak more. 
e stool well between them: "what's a Res
hould be carried out under the plane-tre
 hope?"
know why. I am a disappointed drudge, si
wered Mr. Lorry, "and for Mr. Darnay, an
"So far, we have spoken before these two
upon the hearths for the burning of wood
With the tears streaming down her face, 
th to keep you here, while every minute 
o the detested word, the living sea rose
led to her eyes, and broke like waves.
was a flutter among the military lantern
s Pross, "and I hope she finds it answer
and research.  They may be modified and 
e on again, for God's sake, through the 
t the nature of the prisoner's schemes, 
They looked at one another, and their he
ettled manner of a tired man, who had wa
lables that she said to me, by placing m
 days and nights circled as regularly as
ng. Before this rumour, the crowd gradua
e of time for his usual methodical toile
 him, and set as resolutely as his lips.
and pick him up again. His face is bleed
tested than any name in France."
 and a half, five paces by four and a ha
gh; not that I have any fault to find wi
 there are precautions to be taken, that
 the crag, the little village in the hol
 extremes, could see them both), they wo
or's was an anxious life, no doubt; stil
ing the edifice away. With the rising an
ous, had not seen it inevitably coming, 
ded into his view, floated by him, and d
said. I remember them very well."
 shops; for a crowd in those times stopp
Daring burglaries by armed men, and high
o appeal to her, was made hopeless by he
 Vacation's infancy was still upon it. A
yself to find them of a surprising natur
and a table, and folded the miserable wr
rassed, evaded her glance as a small dog
ombated by stirring the fire continuousl
d danced his angry blood up, that it boi
on, and had resolved to accept nothing.
."
Literary Archive Foundation, the owner o
rry, looking out at window.
, and what with the shadows without, he 
 told her. It was in vain that I asked h
the darkening faces by the fountain belo
d the mender of roads, being found alrea
nd to remember my words of last night, a
 gate of Paris whereunto their journey n
"Has been here some days--three or four-
ffic and traffickers, was easy enough, e
 courtyard, and was the general public e
; he'd want all along to be out of the l
end while Mr. Stryver fitted the prisone
eat, I found both the brothers intent up
together, walking up and down, walking u
 received the work on a physical medium,
"Hold the light higher!" he said, wrathf
ots covered with clay.
should not see it and take it from us--I
his fellows, upon whom the functionaries
n the furnace in which sustained endeavo
e Defarge immediately called to her husb
"Children?"
gerous?"
me) of scarcely any one but myself, if a
of himself as "a honest tradesman." His 
"Lucie, I recall these old troubles in t
 widow with property and three boys, who
ment of this communication and a shillin
 in friendly relations, "let me ask you-
arnay had set his foot according to Doct
n!" cried Miss Pross, clapping her hands
." Mr. Lorry immediately remembered, and
llson's had in keeping, and to hold his 
paration that was offered for sale. Hung
. How could they have a place in the sha
renzy. It died out, as everything but hi
" said Monsieur the Marquis, glancing at
e axe, alone at night, with natural sorr
g noise, yet furious dumb-show.
lican colour, in winding and tramping th
spy, in the meanest manner, as he turned
ame figure a woman with a strong hand, i
!"
ing his head in his hands, that had not 
y went out in quest of such a lodging, a
 the summer--and no doubt he had put the
s, while Miss Pross held the candle as i
"
 must still suggest to you--"
ng hours with clean boots, he often got 
hed like ice before the heat, and trickl
d of the misused and perverted resources
had had any such exalted expectation, he
"Well!" observed Mr. Lorry, beamingly ad
was with no infraction of her usual preo
ough. He has no hand free, to wave to me
part of every one to join some other one
 assisted by his fellow-passengers, who 
rehearsed by Madame Defarge as to his ha
h as to appearance in the ordinary exerc
"My wife," said Defarge aloud, addressin
nd his reading-chair empty.
o that extent. Pray excuse me!"
ilently on at the morning traffic in Fle
ld's head thus distracted, the delicate 
sband's share in it, and my being resort
"Just Heaven!" exclaimed Darnay. "Under 
"Therese Defarge, his wife."
one of _your_ no harms. Get a top of tha
ou're religious, too. You wouldn't put y
 unaltered, except that to the shrewd gl
The people closed round, and looked at M
nic "Yes," were the answer.
 a rising wind, as though they threatene
 attention, when Mr. Cruncher looked at 
ank into this silence, the fainter hope 
gences may read in the feeble shining of
kneel to me!"
 there, when wine had brought no transit
 natural antipathy you strove against, a
ack, without contradicting.
sure, no new affections of mine, and no 
of rain that he typified, and it stopped
dge, where he read with undergraduates a
ave believed in such a miraculous presen
fallen away from, and what you might hav
 until the silence was again broken.
.
worse--and by lighted shops, gay crowds,
his face, and shake the wet out of his h
 bed. I am collecting my tools to descen
ntain," resumed the countryman, "that he
ere; but only casually. We have seen eno
he sat. There was something awful in his
 head and wept in silence.
"It does not take a long time," said mad
"
"Yes. And not for money. What do you say
and tended her with great skill and gent
y, pausing in his looking about, "that h
ed her, and her scarcely less dear names
fter a silence of a few moments, said:
, he exclaimed, in a voice of dire exasp
communicated under an injunction of secr
e sight of you."
he found her more devoted to him married
 lips. It was a gentle action, but not a
 charge myself with him; let him remain 
ing to her, I hope? She must be very des
 an undoubted right to require, I will o
rrative. There is no confusion or failur
her."
"I choose them as real men, of my name--
nly not in the fabulous mill which groun
ed than to be confronted with all the cr
r safe; that flight was impossible; that
s; men in all sorts of rags, with the st
ding-coat, and he stood at Mr. Cruncher'
Mr. Cruncher came to a stop on the pavem
Madame Defarge looked at her scornfully,
done, either from our friend or from you
t had begun on Monday, and here was Wedn
ling of the court. After some gruff coug
om. Their decease made no impression on 
her, I was not half so good, but in my l
ment with extraordinary power, he raised
rom his breast; the prisoner chancing to
to know whether her father had become ob
"You had great influence but yesterday, 
nberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no 
and had his bed there every night.
 it was not much. Yes; he had better be 
e open.
 of him; people on the floor of the cour
"'She has some recent association with t
aircases. All around outside, too, it be
es a little fitful and sudden, as he had
eet and keep up with these requirements.
r, but she heard a low hammering sound i
ses of his quick and laboured breathing,
roof. His own possessions, safety, life,
poor physician.' And it was he, without 
With an admonitory gesture to keep them 
o think of your useful life laid waste, 
er so fast, and drew even these last dre
 all copies of the works possessed in a 
u have--but was not the same. Can you fo
s last night, looking through. He has no
had repeated it.
ldiery there, and one of the police. The
"La Force!"
ase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) i
 wet, among impoverished fields that had
ruggles to be truly free, in their trium
-such fuel as the heavy creditors would 
 wheels of the mail were no longer withi
earing her in the belief that her father
ty of belief in Solomon (deducting a mer
ners so summoned had died in gaol and be
evertheless, leave the table as it is. I
 wounded man with the gentlest solicitud
and my father's."
purchase. Any one carried home by the pe
 had his hand in his breast.
 too dark to see--worked on, half an hou
 boots, and were now making a general pr
thing within range, nearer or lower than
 _was_ overworked; it would show itself 
ine friend of children, to whom in her t
eadily attend to me? Don't ask me why I 
that ringing, and with the rustle of sil
ecisely in the usual manner, and as if t
cellent man."
d a better one.
 of the night took such shapes to him as
too old?" said Mr. Lorry.
n street. Let me take your arm, Miss Pro
ing revealed by the many eyes that looke
"Though it's not important," repeated Ca
riots attended them.
t house, and extended great liberality t
e to the times when all these things sha
ung 'un and a straight made 'un."
ggested.
ost, another dear old institution, very 
eing those trifles through and through. 
ching the back of the Doctor's chair, "e
ose dead are my dead, and that summons t
A trading-boat, with a sail of the softe
 person left of all the crowd, and he, w
e nervous without reason. You are not go
nd her child, without a moment's demur; 
as thrown into a transport by the tiding
d Stryver. "I am sorry for it."
 kiss you now? Is the moment come?"
as they began ascending the stairs.
 had made his own observations, in his o
 excitement. While his learned friend, M
ought them to a stand, with a wary "Wo-h
cade, and sharp reining up across their 
gness, he is the only person present in 
f no Delicacy      Chapter XIV    The Ho
ed like a walnut-shell.
; and that if I knew any man--which I ho
"Then tell Wind and Fire where to stop,"
n, dear Solomon, though I have ever love
"Yes, madame," answered Mr. Lorry; "this
"And his wife and child. Hush! Yes."
hout first wandering in this manner, and
, and if you see any signs of more flopp
 universal watchfulness so encompassed h
to their duty.
ces, the upturning of many faces, the pr
"
hts were put out. When he lay down on hi
othing. The escort and the universal wat
n who had lived in it until he made a fl
 evidently English.
 unknown. The remorseless sea of turbule
"Then, like the best of men," said Miss 
t in these works, so the Foundation (and
he prison of La Force."
 the hearth, over against Mr. Lorry. Whe
short commons, to-morrow," returned that
 the stool under his arm at his father's
 place would have been, if the glass cou
s space of time. And it was now, about l
o him just now, or at all disturb him. I
ssible way, and finally dismissed him to
y payments      must be paid within 60 d
he Channel--though what those affairs we
d by many objects that were illustration
" said Mr. Cruncher, taking a bite out o
h, with other narrow winding streets div
was speaking about our being friends. No
"I was that child, my father, I was not 
o had never been near the Old Bailey in 
onate brother, said through her tears, "
said Madame Defarge, with her usual comp
rm.
t length taking up his keys, "come with 
," said Carton. "Don't tell Her of this 
o unaccustomed and unhardened senses. Ev
 Jerry of being anything but an English 
s, "How do you do, Mr. Stryver? How do y
r of things was reversed, and that the f
her, she left you, at two years old, to 
loving you better than words can tell, a
ooking man of thirty, and he should have
ification as a compliment; but he made t
 Doctor."
Thus it had come to pass, that Tellson's
rapidly ordered to be put forth to be ma
pparition of a dance-figure gone raving 
 gentleman sitting opposite, still looki
our, not a touch of human sympathy.
an ill-omened lamp slung across the road
k of his hand with rain-drops on it. But
s; the black flag waved night and day fr
as he dwelt upon it; but, there was noth
de."
s too much occupied then with fears for 
lly taken their road in life--we, ours--
, some women held wine to their mouths t
 two witnesses; Theophile Gabelle, and A
ds of sorrow among the rest, they were n
"And she showed me her children," said t
me, the mender of roads was not enchante
hat he can say, but he knows of one."
ike a pigmy charge of bayonets, until th
 somewhat restlessly, and like one think
The chateau burned; the nearest trees, l
"Yes, Miss Manette is going to be marrie
began knotting them up in her handkerchi
travellers set out continually, in carts
of business, I am not justified in sayin
it _is_ a long time."
 of no locality but Temple Bar. Alas! Te
mine, if it wos so, entreatin' of you fu
e gave him his hand, and Carton gently p
gain; and a gloom gathered on the scene 
Defarge went back to the counter, and sa
They raised the unconscious figure, plac
the baker's shelves, written in every sm
rge again.
it was a wrong and foolish one on Englan
Monseigneur had one truly noble idea of 
iver me? No answer. Ah Monsieur heretofo
and shiver his part of the case to usele
w to express itself to him, he answered,
r outnumbering the former; and that whil
"Monseigneur, not yet."
erintendence.--O my poor darlings!"
"Really, Mr. Barsad, I can't say, if you
--where is that Accursed?"
uard, leaving his hold of the door, and 
s unluckily found. Go on!"
 gallop came fast and furiously up the h
or the worse. Better leave it alone. In 
st of your way. Good night."
shape once more, under similar hammers, 
r. Jerry Cruncher's name, therefore, dul
ard: particularly at those times when th
rturbation, of the loneliness of the des
 at him anew, weeping, embracing, and sh
n they rested on it, he started, and res
though in the same low voice, "engaged i
were twenty hands at the horses' bridles
than enough of bad roads, bad equipages,
ds. As if _they_ had any help for anybod
o-morrow."
in it! Better for him that his beard had
ch House, as well as an English one."
l--as if he had beaten himself precious,
m little and weak, and it will give me m
They went up slowly and softly. The stai
"They are here. Had you any conversation
t, or morning, to his jackal; "mix anoth
 such times, to the end that she may kno
 think about, without embarrassing our h
iderable effort, much paperwork and many
"Never mind about 'happening,' Mr. Lorry
edside of the young woman, I found her r
ge?"
rs. The standard gaoler-joke was, "Come 
ad not been true), saying that he could 
."
ut him had pressed and passed the inquir
u were among the first to enter the accu
hy. Her hope had been to avert the wrath
ng to her with more than the hold of a d
rds in?"
ke, and he threw it into a basket.
 Pross. No sooner did he face her, than 
use, the air was cold and sad, the dull 
a line of twenty men long, all linked sh
 heading some of her women, was visible 
n by-and-bye (an imaginary engagement to
been no new discovery, of money, or of a
aint Antoine, over and over again produc
m he had seen upon the Jury, stood drink
s feet upon the ground, like a distracte
d to Jerry: who, in the slackened intere
"Oh! Good evening, citizen," filling his
ered the wine-shop. Their arrival had li
"No."
It was nothing to her, that an innocent 
s in rough red caps were smoking, drinki
 nine, black hair, generally rather hand
ut the passages), was in a manner contag
"Unsettled weather, a long journey, unce
 As I was saying--"
 said he, with a final shrug of the shou
 she laughed, "you poor wretch! What are
inked hand in hand, and all spun round t
y, forbearance, and goodwill, on his err
.
y, and those of Stryver, which above all
Madame Defarge was not likely to follow 
He complied as to the chair, but appeare
aces showed as if they were in torment. 
was given to some scores of inoffensive 
came pouring out with a vehemence that n
or and the President straight, and I wil
 Gutenberg-tm License must appear promin
"Courage, my dear Lucie," said Mr. Lorry
wine and the lie, excused him for the la
 closed, that his people should not see 
issed La Guillotine, looked through the 
our to seek my assistance, and what is t
 said Mr. Lorry, "to bring the dead out 
"Yes. The family honour, sir, is safe fr
e with it.
 was the Tribunal to compensate itself a
reful to dewelop your talents, and never
 yours!"
s of quality and fashion, who were full 
nce; and embraced her.
aster shut and barred the crazy double g
 had been mere rats come out of their ho
coming into Paris under a guard five hun
"I try to be a good wife, Jerry," the po
d gone.
They went out, leaving Lucie, and her hu
," said Mr. Lorry, "if it is not dangero
d a half of public street and road, and 
eque shake as if the wind rustled it, wh
esponsibility and respectability have sa
d happened in that dreadful time as coul
"That has a bad look," said Darnay--
"With a daughter?"
parison only.
 thing to be done for the old Sydney Car
he treacherous foe of the Republic crouc
.
"Now understand me," pursued Mr. Lorry. 
 light was admitted through these means,
 you cannot be afraid to leave him with 
d casting his breeches and gaiters into 
you?"
closed doors, and in a mysterious and gu
ewing, and embroidering; the men were fo
rom his thoughts or practice--"which I d
autious," said Miss Pross; "but I may sa
Be particular."
without charge with others.
difficulty at the guard-house in this sm
mends.
 shoulder, took out a key.
"
He seemed wilfully to mistake the word s
n once set apart for interviews with the
h, confound you! What a change you have 
 resting his arm on the back of her chai
s!"
in, squeezing himself in among the lean 
her."
d has drawn a prize in the lottery of Sa
The turnkey stopped at a low door, put a
of rags and nightcaps, and all visible t
ferocious countenances which had been gl
 copy and distribute it in the United St
rted away among the moss and leaves, lik
 and a murmur, and the unintelligible so
r to me, I recognise the tall man, and h
und it most polluted, were a rotten red.
 dark: for, the window of dormer shape, 
d Jacques. Give him to drink, my wife!"
e terrors with a steady head. No man bet
h testified to her possessing such a thi
the guard got down to skid the wheel for
d leave the matter there. I say, stop th
ay. Is not that my right?"
your wife, Evremonde?"
my earnest wishes for them poor creeturs
 and serviceable in your life--and you w
ict goes on in the business mind, when t
dst general rejoicing. Practical suggest
 but had been able to detect no sign. Th
it was trailing off into unintelligible 
carriage, and soon, in a neighbouring ch
"A multitude of people, and yet a solitu
es. The women were seated at a long tabl
ller left be congratulated: for the two 
"'Gentlemen,' I returned, 'I am that Doc
 in due course the golden hair that had 
 the Calais packet, if he wanted a handy
e shop, close shut and surrounded by so 
vow already, to go through with this, th
hen I took the tidings home, our father'
st entangling his feet. As he did so, a 
Sydney Carton, who, with Mr. Lorry, had 
gone to his benefactor Death, had felt t
y sister married. He was ailing at that 
dding her head with a stern kind of coqu
y--as though he were trying to reconcile
, speaking low. After a silence of a few
in stature, manner, voice, and (as far a
 honest prayer than he did in this distr
lt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, 
t he was soon to become. When toned down
 what plate and jewels would tarnish in 
s come," answered madame. "I have them b
nd how difficult--how almost impossible-
epentance, blight you, disgrace you, pul
 my postilions! A good journey!"
ough the rusted bars, tastes, rather tha
ter by the door. When he had stood, for 
ble of restoration--the old inquiry:
re."
Neuf, reckoning in her mind the number o
 if I was you."
ken country, bold and open, a little vil
o and fetch things? I'll let you know, i
put on heavy shoes, and trudged. But, th
e spot where his guineas used to be. Mor
se riches could not buy his life, to the
all the outward aspect of a Frenchman an
 the hours, to the day when the fifty-tw
"Do you know, Sydney," said Mr. Stryver,
at for him along these country roads the
e the knowledge of what I want to say to
ay. That's the kind of thing for _you_. 
ce would be alarming, when we remember h
n spires of churches and lofty buildings
on this; but, only ask yourself, how cou
rest followed in another carriage, and s
 cold, so dark, my senses are so benumbe
 faces, and many naked feet, and many wo
ils jolted heavily and slowly through th
u!--under that sky there, every day. Lon
rt, the period was so far like the prese
s son-in-law was, through no malice or m
destruction from years of priestly impos
s, in among the eight great towers surre
is as quite a liberal offer; "or I'll ou
come in the inappropriate squalor and mi
alarm. There was none. Keys turned, door
other!' and then counted up to twelve, a
 tide of people setting up the stairs th
eur Gabelle did heavily bar his door, an
 dormer shape, was in truth a door in th
orward, leaving the daughter by the door
his unfathomable water, wherein, as mome
hter's drawing her arm through his, and 
mmoned for to-morrow?"
up-stairs, Mr. Lorry was reminded of Def
he carriage, show him yourself to Mr. Lo
.
 perishing by this retributive instrumen
t the better of me. I am an Englishwoman
ublime appearance by announcing that arr
e Defarges had not made the paper public
imself into Fleet-street, amidst the gen
one of these men--a man with a grey head
 were alone. Hemmed in here by the massi
 noticed him. A few passers turned their
Prayer backwards for a great number of y
d will get to Temple Bar long before I c
 were very shy of being confidential on 
en hundred defenceless prisoners of both
arms struggled in the air like shrivelle
 tried them on Madame Defarge, and had b
"Yes; for a moment. At first I thought i
at the gate by which you brought me in?"
exedly counted his change, and asked, as
laims of mercy and humanity. With this u
inted by the slain. She only knew that t
g-tm works calculated using the method  
He bent over the child, and laid her blo
w against the bar.
 the crumbling fabric that he was suppos
rgon about "the Centre of Truth:" holdin
or this, he knew full well. It was again
mposure. "It is the daughter of your fat
As the sombre wheels of the six carts go
lagged on with him.
on's face, which was turned to the fire.
 a convent, while there was yet time to 
ters were not at that time easily found;
 what times I may be watched. She had in
heir divine rights with a high hand. Thu
 chair ready for her. I cry with vexatio
u a clerk in Tellson's bank?"
 relations conduced to social morality--
ensely before her little child was born,
pe of his coming to himself. If that sho
 he sat, with a steadfastly vacant gaze,
 Mr. Lorry's eyes to Carton's face, whic
"Good night, citizen."
, not only gave him a disreputable look,
n?"
this lady (as of some other people befor
he wants you."
it. My dear, I have seen it bleeding."
? Yet such things were. Tellson's had wh
ds supping at their doors.
"Still," said Darnay, "you know how gloo
So strangely clouded were these refineme
rooms, he found her waiting for him with
The Doctor was in his best condition, an
If it was ever intended that I should go
nwholesome sea might do. It was dense en
 took her away--for his pleasure and div
t that had to do with it. Never in a deb
s not a human creature in Saint Antoine'
since I--came last from France."
ight, and ordered him back into his harn
 being a spectral sort of race that he r
oset, where he made his toilet, with a s
g on his shoulder, and he resting his ar
 to help you, I suppose. But it's not wo
d feel how white she was, without seeing
e Section of Saint Antoine. This citizen
ntelligible words meant.
bled time would have heaved her up, unde
ve him!"
.
k him when she did so, and visibly passe
im. The darkness deepened and deepened, 
With this hurried adjuration, he cocked 
ur account of your matrimonial intention
d stillness, she faintly began: "When th
speak of nothing else; even the fountain
y husband!" she cried, pointing him out.
d of feet; some, as it seemed, under the
 without seeing her--and both highly com
 direct light and air, faded down to suc
, without comparing notes with other eye
stion now."
t--whose taste was so coarse, and whose 
n I employed myself, in my captivity, in
de you more unhappy than you were before
?" asked the brisk Young Jerry.
. Confused, but sensible that something 
ound about us, which looks at me with an
the old house in Soho (though it had not
 to be a little more useful."
t to his broad, blunt nose. It was so li
sighted in the eternal arrangements, sur
r to recall that I told you so, long ago
hile we live to see it triumph--I hope, 
awing his wood.
Of unjust treatment in detention and har
hus engaged in a season when crowds were
to awaken a strong suspicion in his brea
As he was drawn away, his wife released 
rry could discover, was, that he sometim
own. Now, observe! I never doubted until
e fell, or old Foulon was seized; not so
are you up to? At it again?"
the bridge, the Carmagnole absorbed them
e, was very difficult. A numerous medley
as the season of Light, it was the seaso
 I do--Well," said madame, drawing a bre
er manner of marketing was to plump a no
eans certain, on reflection, that I ever
Vengeance, whom her eyes first encounter
necessary than breath, it being a spectr
ent of the Royal George, that although b
aight, and make that change."
 head. "I know nothing of it."
Bank, in his fidelity to the House of wh
half believe you do--go your ways as soo
 of flies, who were extending their inqu
ou_ about _your_ prospects. You are in a
 among the many sweet scents of a summer
 the day came coldly, looking like a dea
eholders on the shore--three years of te
would set when we were out of the harbou
"Pass this way, then."
"Very well. Find the door where the witn
de but in rendering some service to her 
rward and very busy, making shoes.
llect. Now, you think I may not be right
n a surprising heat and with the greates
 keeping him in charge. He had been days
om one to another, and said, in a lower 
ave wakened him up and had the same spee
he hot embers of the flaming log, when i
his breathing shook the lips from which 
"You are a noble heart. Did I say we cou
ce, our Lord the King, by reason of his 
*****
terday. When is it dated? But no matter;
ency they crookedly quivered and jerked,
lly, some partial shouts of tumult broke
ted out.
loy of the aristocratic English governme
ed to haunt the places where their bodie
"I was not present at the ceremony; but 
ded to him to have Charles Darnay brough
ssing or hypertext form.  However, if yo
 Mr. Cruncher added to himself: "Jerry, 
ve after him, seemed to protest and to m
 and looking up. There was a small chimn
 mist, it made its slow way through the 
 of the lamp that was hanging there; it 
uch of the Tower?"
"Miss Manette, had you any conversation 
hat December month, that the rivers of t
men do. Ever borrow money of the prisone
 of St. Antoine. The whole jury, as a ju
 summoned some time earlier, inasmuch as
 parish clerks, and wot with sextons, an
e are all desperate here. Remember! I ma
f the bell, and one of my two conductors
as given:
 the cry, 'My husband, my father, and my
ning an elbow on the table, covered his 
t was much the dearer. Therefore, all th
ty, "that you accompany Miss Manette to 
rnay?"
elf, "Has he sacrificed me?" when his fa
it, a vegetable or two from the garden, 
ringing in, after putting up the steps. 
 his head.
The summer light struck into the corner 
three boys, who had nothing particularly
t two hundred years.
when I had no bread to give him! Foulon 
awing his arm soothingly round her waist
The supplication touched him home. "I wi
"In your adopted country, I presume, I c
ot, that flowed at him, and already brok
Mr. Cruncher, with some diffidence, expl
"Then I tell you again, Mr. Darnay, I am
d the Doctor, "without any condition. I 
"I understand that I wait for you under 
They were both silent.
er walked among the terrors with a stead
et a top of that there seat, and look at
. Lorry's destination. Carton left him t
 miss his old companion after an absence
e came down bringing his life with him f
, "I wouldn't go on such an object witho
when he was questioned, and that ponderi
rudged. But, the theatres were all well 
s words, "has golden hair and blue eyes.
es is strained to that degree that I sho
m," asked the Doctor, distinctly and col
 soul of Foulon, Rend Foulon to pieces, 
l, that the crowd had taken him through 
speak to you."
st instantly. Rain was really falling in
r failed to become so interested in the 
he also knew her by this time to be, ben
ey Carton. "Keep your eyes upon me, dear
e, young Mr. Darnay soon became known an
f, that it was a free place.
o it was that Solomon brought, had passe
s his last and utmost precaution against
rs with a steady head. On a lightly-snow
The altercation was conducted in a low t
e, should be melted into thundering cann
nto the bank and the grave.
d them, and no man spoke when they enter
the thorns and leaves and moss of many b
ate sounded, and the irruption was repea
n a keener, and then advanced to him her
s. Two or three times, the matter in han
earnest face.
sad."
eluctant witness at the establishment in
 that I have come here voluntarily, in r
ldest. From such household occupations a
Book the Third--the Track of a Storm
ill be in a state of mind to impeach the
ing half dead. And even then it would no
 a man's being impelled forward by the b
e water disappeared, the prayer that had
wife.  Let the bearer see his wife."
re under the displeasure of the Republic
 come from Doctor Manette?"
 Manette was released, you, his old dome
few hours; I have encompassed him with e
ing and Queen, more Bull's Eye, more lor
netrated into the midst of a group of fi
don't know what reason there is in it. P
. What a barber! You have seen him at wo
Barsad leaned back in his chair, and sta
cow, trying for a breakfast among the we
hers, the common wretches were left to g
isoner was so good as to beg permission 
d for keeping all things in their places
nst these changes in the ceremonies; but
ced round.
in. Nine gone for ever, ten gone for eve
le Court, through the Chambers, the Trib
e had fifty of those limbs, and were try
ame Defarge took him to the door, and pu
ung woman, with a slight girlish form, a
ularity with the blackguard multitude at
though it was a bitter day, he wore no c
 now, burning people in the hand at Newg
e got him on so far. His difficulty at t
f it. He was unrobed, and was none the b
well."
st moment, the prisoner misdoubted him t
I left, as if I were dead." Stopping the
the Accused openly denounced or secretly
n's, in the further corner of the mourni
 Defarge's manner, Mr. Lorry looked dubi
ur presence.
metimes, and they would be occasionally 
hat man to lend her to him--for what are
o France. There he was, and there was th
"You had abandoned all hope of being dug
But when they came to the town of Beauva
 of its coming hopping out of them like 
scaffold.
 and remained silent.
 to me is in this dreadful town to-night
had begun to tend towards an object, he 
s and straw that were thrust into his fa
hat he knew, in the swell that rose abov
"But this is my father's story, sir; and
ck, and turned. Before the door was open
iding a jinte of meat or two, none of yo
onversation also, and led the unfortunat
 letter out inquiringly; and Monseigneur
gs. The President rang his bell; but, Th
, and the heavy shadow of Temple Bar. If
whispered in the ears of Mr. Jarvis Lorr
to a spot reserved for those who were an
em before the wall of Paris. The barrier
A struggle was evidently in his face; a 
"Mr. Darnay!"
anised country, a city that may not be e
 air among the houses was of so strong a
d-job-man's feet, it formed the encampme
st now been suggested to his mind, he fo
sts because of the efforts of hundreds o
me--
blance to a pair of monkeys. The resembl
 on board?"
number of women, busily knitting. On one
It was the popular theme for jests; it w
 so overbearing, that he could not restr
nder the stare.
 what it liked was destruction. It thund
ge.
ed), that many of the lookers-on, taking
ld you you could occupy. It will suit yo
great days, when the Bastille falls, he 
rd or two of a man's nose, he can see it
e, it could never be set right in your l
hould I not approve?"
it was a son who would never know his fa
s a gloomy thing, however, to talk about
ed the day in the country, and the Docto
nning to revive, and to speak intelligib
n the jury, like a compact suit of cloth
nd of fire in the breast of Saint Antoin
 the Revolutionary Jury. Not in the wine
hat emotional nature that it brought the
is no earthly doubt that he is retaken."
Cruncher should have it entirely under h
read that united him to a Past beyond hi
d that I write the truth as I shall answ
 of money as if she knocked its brains o
. Look over your hand, Mr. Barsad, and s
"You will not be late?"
ds (which was most unnecessary, for noth
moments whether the late shoemaking migh
ge turned about, and drove on at its for
oft window? It was somewhere here?'
s--ha, ha!--beats everything past, prese
d the look, and evidently understood it.
"Here is a visitor."
early, Mr. Barsad. I won't."
k looked at him sideways with a stronger
d forty or fifty thousand revolutionary 
afire to-day, or sacked to-morrow! Now, 
s to the carriage, and leaned back, with
"Now, I tell you where it is!" said Mr. 
reats him, timidly.
cup-bearer; and while they sat under the
ther's eyes. Madame Defarge had not move
e you both! Listen! For other crimes as 
uldn't She weep for you? Wouldn't her ch
owed upon the prisoner by as many of bot
ooked round to see that there was no one
head in his hands, that he was in some m
it down. "And now," said Mr. Stryver, sh
of way, Sydney, I might have been a litt
the time for a spy, under the gaolers. T
 Mr. Attorney-General concluded by deman
ey were not agreed, but signified his pl
t of the harbour. He did it for me. He e
"'Gentlemen,' said I, 'pardon me; but I 
, was not quite unforeseen by its subjec
er people before her time and since) tha
sdropper among the natives. He knew that
ssinia or Ashantee.
"I forgot them in the surprise of your v
Monseigneur received him in a courtly ma
tree whispered to them in its own way ab
 on.
t. Nice toasts these Redheads will be dr
He knew very well, that in his horror of
will take a verbal one?"
," said Mr. Stryver, gaily, as he looked
 account of others, but I am satisfied o
ter of your father who is my business he
lawful opener of a letter was put to Dea
o Cities, by Charles Dickens
s Manette will tell well in any station,
"I go so far as to say, miss, moreover,"
 her heart could not be as lightened of 
aircase to a door in a corridor. This th
, and was extremely anxious to see the g
ere bed-winches," returned Miss Pross, "
ge, drawing himself up, "if madame my wi
distant House, and glanced at the angry 
nd nobody thought any of these occurrenc
e writing of Doctor Manette. I confide t
. Lorry could not have seen, for his lif
every one employed as he was did, that h
 keep a single tame bird of our own, pil
st request of my dear mother's lips, and
rious, excellent, and so forth; that was
and "my bird!" and spreading her golden 
t it was impossible to foresee what that
 eyes were always on his paper), and to 
reaking into a smile. "What was it you s
e the established order and nature of ap
the old story, the winds and streams had
hose ragged pockets they had come.
rk can be copied and distributed to anyo
f prisoners; he saw her husband weekly, 
 has roughened your temper? Put some pun
m--it was a pursuer to shun. It was an i
nk Heaven--!
pe of being dug out?"
ut out everything from the light of the 
iver it to greater authorities within, t
one to another, in the course of my busi
rance gave great satisfaction to the spe
"Be explicit," said the Doctor. "Spare n
 guineas, it would be so encouraging. I 
 weapon that was thrown up from the dept
It falls. I mount to the cell, with a fe
white hair, though they had been really 
rds, after there had been a vivid flash 
de, Sardanapalus's luxury, and a mole's 
 massive stone outer walls, in among the
any Project Gutenberg-tm works unless yo
Tea-time, and Miss Pross making tea, wit
es me. Ah, but he would be well content 
ty is, to know which is he; he stands at
ence.
ldly as ever, at the suppliant, and said
aving ascertained its situation, Carton 
amps swung, and there Madame Defarge let
rk had passed: and the haggard eyes had 
s an incumbrance in the mind of the elde
ng of a threat of defiance in his manner
e in the afternoon. When he can get to i
s!" the guard retorted. "What are you?"
her chair again, and, holding the chair-
n, in wild desperation, extending both a
ilence by saying:
long afterwards, when France and she wer
ross, seeing that he spoke to her, "noth
h Monseigneur and the whole Court, throu
sat on his heap of stones under a bank, 
rom the dark room. "Adieu, Mr. Barsad," 
owd and murdered.
y should sit there in the air. As everyt
lon, Give us the body and soul of Foulon
Antoine, with a strange look, "you will 
isons, and still of to-morrow's and to-m
, take him backwards and forwards betwee
, was heightened to its utmost. Surely, 
ther, has its short arm held out for it,
 My husband, fellow-citizen, is a good R
 at first. Presently the honoured parent
ances private, because Farmer-Generals w
rk.  Copyright laws in most countries ar
tte should bring to you at any time, on 
thrift that it was more abundant than an
r, rang for joy.
nably be guilty of this crime, and this 
s, allied himself perforce with a Farmer
kered in flames of faces at most doors a
out his lips, whose appearance gave grea
 a lonely lodger rumoured to live up-sta
ps, and moved towards the door.
ied they would never approach. Not only 
amp way of earning a living mine is."
y and obscurity could not save her. Phys
 over again. No motives but motives of s
y disturbed that poor woman at intervals
 this one when they were left alone, Mr.
 me, heap of ashes that I am, into fire-
ie was so well concealed from her, that 
 would come and go, as easily as in busi
ms in which he had often come back; he w
oking at the pillar of fire in the sky. 
" returned madame, with her extended han
 not to be communicated. I have sometime
ed at him with the very same intensity, 
ntiquity, except that it was something v
ur Charles, I see."
 showed a compassionate superiority to t
h! the posting-house.
me a rouleau of gold. I took it from his
it with a sounding snap of his teeth. Ob
eased talking, and began gradually to dr
ate, loving, thankful, womanly action, b
eep and awake, drunk and sober, and in v
pose between us? _I_ know it well, but d
ind a fine sea-coal fire, sir.) Fetch ba
tered young Jerry. "Where does my father
ly answered: "Nothing can happen to him 
re far from insensible or unfeeling; the
 the President."
cely, that Charles had lain in prison on
s a false traitor to our serene, illustr
under the carriage with some half-dozen 
al to the lords of the State preserves o
"My friend, I will die, perpetuating the
country and the People. I am the sworn s
e lingered there yet a little longer, wa
y moved to him as he had spoken, and the
er happiness known to her before he left
 would seem, in these days, a ridiculous
"Openly, President."
ruth, to your own solitary heart, to-nig
"
 it, and turned it off with a laugh. Aft
of the blaze, the stone faces showed as 
s personal history had established the f
s and drink! I don't know how scarce you
eaten out of their original impress as t
e. And look at me! I get on."
sion, and had kept it, biding their time
mes to claim his own."
enough, but my sister was good and virtu
care of him. There were no other passeng
ute or more, before it found the glass f
acious Mr. Lorry saw that there was a ne
ghter had known nothing of the country o
y on hill and plain, on rock, in gravel,
Apparently, Mr. Cruncher did, to judge f
will scarcely hear thee. Louder yet, Ven
with young men who could find any leisur
"Jacques One, Jacques Two, Jacques Three
 and of her father too, and who has a gr
ddress, turned into English, ran:
- You provide a full refund of any money
h that could be eaten. Expressive signs 
, and, in the working out of that intent
ite.
 shadows deepened, the owner of that nam
 never shone in the house of Doctor Mane
say?"
fully to Dover, in the course of the for
oderate and explain himself.
ve the falling of a fountain into its st
restless anxiety. He said he had been wi
an aristocrat and tyrant, and still I wo
reflections then, that it might be a goo
"I think you may take that liberty," the
w him where you stand. Then what you hav
ed circuitously at the understanding tha
The grindstone had a double handle, and,
rything, father," said the artless boy.
from his lonely labour, and viewed the p
 him for answer, and walked on in a stea
s so composedly himself, that Mr. Lorry 
zen exceptional people who had had, for 
ly, he had proposed, after anxious consi
stance, Mr. Cruncher never failed to bec
ure of chatting when you entered, that t
e, like a rusty old ship's anchor from t
Possibly at home, but of a certainty imp
nd the medium on which they may be store
ith paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
aint Antoine in Paris.
he head of the king--and now, it seemed 
ion. As to the nature of the case, our c
day night in November five years ago, an
 came rushing along.
rue to her duties. She was truest to the
e got holsters to that saddle o' yourn, 
ied her into the room. He sat her down j
ve for her father."
hes and her own symbols, it will always 
. A gaoler, with a list in his hand, loo
, chisel, and hammer, attended by Miss P
so, but I hope it is--if you hear in my 
stop the vehicle and horses from coming 
clammy and intensely cold mist, it made 
bject in the room distortedly reflect--a
d perhaps another letter, or perhaps two
sed in, the daughter laid her head down 
t, and went out.
"You mean the Guillotine. Not ill. Sixty
warm atmosphere of the old Bank, into th
room in which he lay abed was already sc
lson's, and sat himself down by Lucie an
f a true friend of the Republic. Let him
 a young English lady, Miss Manette?"
mself, so much to his temporary intoxica
conwenient) to get 'em out o' this here 
thing to his work besides mere dictionar
And yet, observing the strange law of co
"Indeed I am lost here. All here is so u
e at the gate, standing silent behind hi
r the hushing snow.
"When the prisoner came on board, he not
e quick to see what happened to the gold
ring down upon them, too.
f he had been taken in a net, or were be
"You have been useful all your life; ste
After some cogitation, accompanied with 
and decayed, indifferently furnished--ev
ing. Monsieur Defarge's olfactory sense 
s, or something as far removed), until t
 toothpick by, kept her eyebrows up, and
eers with the assistance they need, are 
 it in fear, with the door barred and th
cluded by demanding of them, in the name
eapest garment she could wear, and had b
ared out of fire.
treet into a courtyard, out of the court
ntly she knew no more of that "nonsense"
ow faces peeping through its barred wind
sively clutching at every weapon or semb
is, for all reasons, best out of France.
scription on passing boys who were small
It is Jarvis Lorry who has replied to al
"I feel," said Miss Pross, "as if there 
iting their dismissal from the desolate 
e, especially at first, the inundation s
l only half turned towards him, "do you 
"As I was saying; if Monsieur Manette ha
a special jolt--nodded in his place, wit
"Then why the devil don't you dine? I di
ll and total darkness, that I must abrid
ftly, and with his finger at his nose. "
 on, Jacques."
y restored to him. He was now a very ene
ouncer was a well-known citizen, his own
or Manette in this idea, because I felt 
can be pursued and brought back," said M
 any definite remembrance of it, there c
ple, pipe in mouth, playing with limp ca
 when they went in together--that no ves
etic private in the Life Guards had hera
 A moment afterwards, and a throng of pe
 because he had not kneeled down in the 
"But my dear!" began Defarge.
ing in your mind, Monsieur Manette?"
her arms about her head like all the for
t was, that it was like a voice undergro
"Yes, citizen."
uch better than I know the Bailey. Much 
"Without doubt," said the polished uncle
late upon the two slumbering forms, unti
, and I am sure he felt it. That was the
he waterspout of the Carmagnole; after k
t when I was summoned out--she had a fea
 seemed then to fall, threatening and da
n, he bent to work again, until the sile
's was the only voice in Saint Antoine t
 is known only to myself, and to one oth
 in her work for the first time, and poi
 repeat it after a while, and as it was 
arly attracted his notice, and which was
 the time, and there was not a head in t
ed immovable close to him through the st
her wrappings, that they gave him to wea
XVII. One Night
 sat in the still house in the tranquill
een spoken on either side.
ed higher, seven dead faces, whose droop
d been otherwise;'" the hand was at the 
"Apparently it must be. Lucie, the wife 
nees; now, on his feet; now, on his back
as in-looking.
r book that I loved, and vainly hope in 
 joints. As often as the driver rested t
tocrat, an enemy of the Republic, a noto
ear!"
 GUTENBERG EBOOK A TALE OF TWO CITIES **
Yet, this Mr. Carton took in more of the
eave off. From the Palace of the Tuileri
pproached by a courtyard and shut off fr
a musty odour, as if they were fast deco
to-day, or of yesterday, or even of last
etween France and England, on secret bus
nd pledged to one another."
ntleman so retired?"
1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and
Rounding his mouth and both his eyes, as
utmost brink of death, you would have ca
ent come?"
 her original proposition was questioned
They were not agreed, and wished to reti
jured his mother to perform her first du
the new-comer.
e made the more ludicrous by his anxious
ng at the objects of his brief devotion 
before the tumbrils arrive!"
 large, and looked unnaturally so. His y
old pain has given me a power that has b
"Well! I'll say gallantry. My meaning is
ling out its meaning, he heard her say, 
m into the ground, that grass may grow f
er that it was her husband's last arrang
, the wearer of this, to destroy life in
, fried with some reluctant drops of oil
 three months when the Doctor was thus s
 to this cart and to this, and seems to 
 of Use and Redistributing Project Guten
ing pity, on the flowing golden hair; as
rth Tower."
selves. Mr. Darnay presented himself whi
 in cruel separation from his wife and c
 weather, better than I had done. I had 
 to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work
in your hand with the rest, you know, an
ficult to trace, that I carefully tried 
d ground close at the father's side, and
have had enough of this style of life, w
Mr. Cruncher had no particular meaning i
is throat, "we will call--Blacksmith's w
said, caressing him, 'It is for thine ow
s and half-seen eyes awaited the Last Da
hich he well knew the jury would have, w
ays      Chapter XIX    An Opinion      
Jerry. That's about it. You may say yes,
llowed, in the hope of overtaking you. W
tood looking after him with her hands to
"You cannot do your friend a better serv
or was examined very carefully under the
 mirrors reflecting the witness, when th
use, on fine Sundays, he often walked ou
to the vilest scum of the earth that eve
d perfectly well, and on the fourteenth 
"We are already friends, I hope."
shed the herbs away.
"Truly, you did well," said the Marquis,
well that Madame Defarge was the family'
 the fierce patrician custom of hard dri
-though never," he added, with a smile a
art, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-
"Guess."
famine, fire, and bell-ringing, and beth
he bitter waters of captivity had worn; 
"That depends. I may find a use for it o
"Five paces by four and a half, five pac
 I wear, to know whether you suspect the
other customer in.
uch as I have, or more than I have. Why,
rnt it here. I taught myself. I asked le
body who could; as to finances private, 
y, East, West, North, and South, along t
hwayman.
 for when I stepped out, is on the fifth
them.
"A moment! Let me speak of it in its pla
 for my bench, and I can't find it. What
Jerry?"
 old plane-tree in the garden. If he had
 regarded her as quite a Sorceress, or C
ul that it cannot be."
tronger than it ever tasted, and so did 
y few years hence, and of fifty like it 
iver."
ed of you, Sydney!"
 easily than I fancied you would, and ar
rolonged shock, of great acuteness and s
 to where the window was. He stopped the
ust before. It opened from a stinking li
"Is that his child?" said Madame Defarge
 possess, against my innocent husband, b
orarily used. Some thick old hangings ha
 a cage, he could not have felt his free
ference. Whereupon, Monsieur Gabelle did
or me. Take my arm, sir."
llage, light-headed with famine, fire, a
he mournful cadence of his low grave voi
us and attentive.
"Ah, the unfortunate, miserable people! 
sued by day, but whereof little was audi
d back in his seat again, and gave the w
rits, a rumour got about that the Guards
 him in. I have seen him but now, on his
 they laugh again. They bring him into t
f his own will, thrown himself on a worl
s of Notre-Dame, had any promise on it o
wise than safe and well here, thank God;
ndation."
nging, drums beating, the sea raging and
hem to pieces and despoil them for your 
"I think it necessary to turn the key." 
thing of. Thrown out of his honourable e
 carry) lying in a bundle that it was wo
d at the angry Stryver.
ed all other signs of agitation.
 him dine--it's all one!"
ad in a smoothing and final way; "no mat
nberg-tm electronic work under this agre
dth of another line.
"My father! Even to hear that you had su
t to be at once your bad fortune, and my
his time."
, as two formal folks of business, are a
the same place.
et street-corner not far from Soho-squar
"What did you look at, so fixedly?"
ouses had been pulled down, and some are
were trampled over the floor, as if ther
considered? We have known _their_ husban
u--and I tell you to your face to do you
lar to these lists?"
his four men of their burdens and taken 
ade shoes, he made shoes, he made shoes.
sed, he could not hope to leave the city
uickly, however, that Mr. Lorry had doub
ong women--who will, for pure love and a
inal "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other form
 of Liberty--the deluge rising from belo
tuation of the secret that was always in
nd his face, though lined, bore few trac
where to stop," returned madame; "but do
Thus, Saint Antoine in this vinous featu
t would turn to water and quench it, no 
I have been able to raise my thoughts to
t he could become involved in no persona
he mender of roads had penetrated into t
ery stone of its inner wall was covered 
r; all in the distant streets, and not o
The village had its one poor street, wit
er every day. The third day came and wen
"The gracious and merciful Heavens forbi
 about, "that he keeps that reminder of 
land? the President reminded him.
the true face of the buried person, the 
last: these and many similar questions, 
o the chair, and brooded over the embers
ravelling papers; and as time pressed, f
times worse. Lastly, came my Lord himsel
on.
cious care of them till I come back." Ch
be seen, spectacularly poring over large
onseigneur, without the aid of four stro
s followed her through this rapid moveme
 strong-rooms made of kitchens and scull
re, or were a Spirit moving among mortal
 from her elevation to do it, the tumbri
"My dear," said Mr. Lorry, striking in t
 provided you with the defective work ma
"Yes, sir. We have oftentimes the honour
g, have come together on the dark highwa
ose to myself to win, is Mr. Barsad."
 Mr. Lorry.
y baby it might suck grass, when these b
The prisoner bent over the paper, once m
rry, thoroughly heated by his indifferen
efore, and were now turned again, stood 
iend to abate that confidence. He profes
"He had before offered me money, which I
to the room from his horse.
and feeble persons were always seen by t
s, should be reduced to the utmost; sinc
strongly reminded of that expression.
yet of the Teacher class, and no ruined 
 him.
in the prisons, the wildest of all point
in upon Lucie. "Judge you! Is it likely 
 and feebler over-swinging lamps, out un
ing but black bread and death. Is it not
 known to drive on, and leave their woun
 while, and then stood hitting a tune ou
e of it. And all of us have like wonders
, for the sea cast him up against a cann
 which he faded into silence, and so str
"Jerry! Jerry!" Mr. Lorry was already ca
w to make donations to the Project Guten
g:
r, and four rough men in red caps, armed
of food and sleep by intervals, shall re
d.
mented with a passionate readiness to sa
 I presume, I cannot do better than addr
ie. But, Miss Pross suddenly became affl
cacy to the complexion, it was the Natio
e. It was so like Smith's work, so much 
ained the favour that the bearer has a s
"I should have thought--" Mr. Lorry bega
of the mail in the night, as a blind, at
rself to Mr. Lorry, tell him yourself to
imself, his promise was redeemed, he had
ay of light and analyse the manner of it
rlet with the butt-end of his musket. "P
barricades in all directions, shrieks, v
hen crowds were few, and belated women f
Mr. Attorney-General had to inform the j
of admiring love and pitying tenderness,
"If, as a honest tradesman, my wenturs g
On the marriage morning, Doctor Manette 
"Drive him fast to his tomb. This, from 
e by the widest variety of computers inc
 know, you may have expressly worked to 
ats had crept out of their holes to look
nch Lewis, and wickedly, falsely, traito
ts," said Mr. Lorry, "on which I am anxi
ed purposeless, until the stream absorbe
he dark streets, could have heard her in
 at their own friends until they dropped
 faces of a man of five-and-forty by yea
very few minutes."
jostling group or crowd, according to it
encouraging. I should be so much more at
"Not at all, but I hope to know it bette
and guard, however, in combination, had 
new they were), and being a responsible 
erted lodging in which they held their c
ication. The Marquis looked that way, an
ough the crevice in the wall. Soon raisi
paused and took a deep breath--"a slight
r more, to a garrison and dockyard, and 
keep his father's place, and take care o
nd village taxing-house had its band of 
f courtly appearance and address, coming
image in the moonlight often, as I now s
degrees he calmed into the better state,
he was not wanted there; our English rea
 the two tall candles, he saw standing t
as not mere boastfulness, but a wild inf
"I have a cousin, an only relative and a
bring it down upon him. Once denounced, 
, when it is on him?"
ve pointed to it for a minute, before th
ld say that her sole reliance, under Hea
"The secret cells!"
erous ground of old, should come to the 
of other ways including checks, online p
within hearing. They both knew too well 
 spy, and that it is considered a discre
petulantly. "Therese."
, "we never hear about them. We received
tum of cutlass.
 no other emotions than grim curiosity a
f a class, opportunity had developed her
 like a sob. It attracted Mr. Lorry's ey
"Well, I don't know all I mean, for I ca
fair head beside her husband's cheerfull
ation of prisoners with shameful crime a
ere?"
ingering years."
a shop-window where there was a mirror, 
I make one it takes the form of Lead. So
had announced himself by name and profes
ion of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
heir pride bitterly resented the younger
From his oppressed slumber, Young Jerry 
Mr. Lorry readily engaged for that, and 
gradually to drop out of the wine-shop.
raining off, when Doctor Manette, Lucie 
e, I don't know, but let it not be a min
 cloak and hat put upon it, and to tempt
-morrow, and removed to the Conciergerie
driver rested them and brought them to a
really is doubly and trebly hard to have
 to hand to a coach in the dark, Mr. Dar
cred in the other's soul, than I was in 
 strange expression on him his thoughts 
xile; that, so far from being in favour 
ze curtains fall around him, and heard t
bation of his hearers. Mr. Lorry and Cha
y to her. Otherwise, she might think 'hi
r.
these two children of the Universal Moth
:--Does your childhood seem far off? Do 
ot to wander from the task. Where I make
"You apprehend me very clearly, Mr. Bars
e misfortunes of a friend now very unfor
all sword, with which, in delicate fines
ood two hours earlier.
 with unusual vivacity. "Pray, Doctor Ma
What winds conveyed this hurry to the gr
rved as the live sign of the house. He w
cavalcade had gone far down the Strand; 
nts, the only little change that the fac
m Ernest Defarge."
on before, went up the staircase to a do
, from which one might have predicated t
meless as her husband and as dear to oth
r, sir."
"Such is the fact," repeated Defarge.
ntion at the horizontal lines of black a
 his pockets and his legs stretched out 
d open mouths, formed outside the door; 
"I will go," said Doctor Manette, "to th
th active links or immediate access to t
s," began the mender of roads, "a year a
"Let it be read."
 in hand, anywhere, but Carton was there
o fall to that tune. At length, on Sunda
 status by the Internal Revenue Service.
 attention to an eminent man, is not so 
ion, as if it were at a distance:
lly rather handsome visage, complexion d
ad. The favour was too much to bear; in 
e modified and printed and given away--y
immortal boy, and also of a looking-glas
 eternally correct. Such frizzling and p
terrible attraction. His latent uneasine
reditors would let them have in the wint
r. Lorry left off.
aid Carton. "To propose too much, would 
 until the clocks struck three in the mo
at delivered his note--little thinking w
dages restraining the arms; but, I had l
d within his view, at a distance of some
formation about Project Gutenberg-tm, in
icion that they were awake, was to be at
y all! _Had_ he reason?"
"There will be a packet to Calais, tomor
pressor?"
is hand, and held out. A joker of an ext
, roused him.
ng, and our parting without ill-blood on
, will profit by my death; but I do not 
ring him with ostentatious friendliness 
r. Lorry said, feelingly:
well, no doubt?" said one of the oldest 
 so far in his expression of opinion on 
--Sydney Carton, an Englishman?"
er, and would have fallen on his knees t
en hammering into this for hundreds of y
things, even magnanimous things."
ble; almost a wreck, it is possible; tho
k than Mr. Lorry had looked for. "True,"
sive to a bell she rang, echoed the sent
 while your poor heart pined away, weep 
 the mill, and up to the prison; all the
engeance, uttering terrific shrieks, and
icion even of his being in this fatal pl
ut of sight, when he stopped in the midd
 over again, countless times. Neither we
her father to life?"
ongs! Armed men and women flocked out of
 rough stones of the street her feet had
ey held their consultation.
led, as yet, by the new sweet air. Then 
earts, and all our love and duty. Heaven
ters, but will soon be home."
s art equally among assassins and victim
Jerry, the messenger, who had made his o
ury you have done my horses. See! Give h
"I am not going to guess, at five o'cloc
 a whimpering miserable way; "let me get
d do even now feel, that to bring my lov
ly looked up without being asked. In tha
antry and youthfulness."
fro with his arms folded on his breast, 
 uttered a scream, and clapped her hands
nd through the smoke--in the fire and in
ce-wood, in which many leaves of burning
 through the raging storm, nothing audib
F TWO CITIES ***
s, but was now a frequent presence. As i
oing out?"
"My dear Mr. Lorry, it is because I am a
 scrawled upon a wall with his finger di
elf. I asked leave to--"
 more, sir."
ed together, women danced together, men 
rible enchantment long persisted in.
flying out of the Circumference, and was
fogs legal, and bring grist to the mill 
 little.
s ascended higher and higher.
h a thing is possible) from the weight t
 of others ran into the midst of these, 
pi and granted tax exempt status by the 
eeble sympathy and humility, "that you a
uiet pause was audibly expressive of peo
"that the worth of _your_ prayers may be
 had reached the young lady's ears. But,
it and they passed on once more into sol
and Monseigneur, after generations of gr
orming any plan. Are _you_ capable of fo
d to him. She had employed herself in bo
 be seen, and that was Madame Defarge--w
o had had, for a few years, some vague m
The door-keeper will pass the note to Mr
e guard, horse and foot, surrounded the 
. Darnay?" asked Lucie. "Sometimes, I ha
ginator, that, as Mr. Lorry stood lookin
 we will take him a ride into the countr
arsad and Cly were even a hundred times 
 she carried the wine down for the speci
g of!"
"What did you say?"
d otherwise evil-adverbiously, revealing
 years.
, and never no more will I interfere wit
usic."
for his glass--which often groped about,
he door.
read-and-cheese had quite bloated Mr. St
ke manner with his arm; the look and bea
er, inasmuch as the tumbrils jolted heav
In a moment, the whole company were on t
se counsellor."
ugh woods.
n.
ays," observed Jacques Three. "Why stop?
gan to be rumoured that the jury would b
The virtuous servant, Roger Cly, swore h
ison on the crag.
As to the latter, when every posting-hou
 had silently strolled out after the res
 a moment; but he was so alert, and made
 some sense of better things, else forgo
 save her. Physical diseases, engendered
de, with the white head. They were consi
lished, neither did he confide in me. Ob
his eyes wider, and taking a long breath
Outside Tellson's--never by any means in
 foot.
 suffering which had gone before it, tha
r, as he used his blue cap to wipe his f
risoner walked to and fro in his cell, c
nd she caught his wrist with both her ha
relief. She looked at her watch, and it 
 to the great dogs who kept watch there 
y's head against my knee. But, invested 
opinion, without the aid of his."
umbering deal table, a very clean white 
ppy in the memorable time when he had re
  Chapter XI     Dusk      Chapter XII  
usand guineas to my darling," said Miss 
will be over in a moment; it is but pass
wer in vain."
er side. They both looked to the right a
ion, so, sublimer intelligences may read
, to break up this conference and order 
in of association would renew it. I thin
l injuries of an acute description on pa
t, and to tempt it forth to find where t
hould have been declared a good citizen 
d to the list the name of Charles Evremo
Madame Defarge's hands were at her bosom
, Lucie came downstairs again, and stole
, pressing forward, had already, with th
ge had taken place yesterday. An inciden
 ears, and follow the waiter to Miss Man
me to have been a prisoner in the Bastil
finger of Fate.
the Long Vacation. After some mental deb
duction in the nature of an article, and
r public vehicle, to that gate of Paris 
er extended hand in strong action. "Noth
e better state, when he could raise his 
bones and over the ears, and wore jack-b
 not a correspondence of to-day, or of y
 own hands. Quick! Call assistance!"
ek direction and guidance from the opini
!" He was tearing himself apart from her
 in waiting on the saintly presence--nob
hey never looked towards him. They seeme
 at least to get him brought to trial, t
ought me! If I had known what I was comi
 was intimate with, and affectionately e
"Miss Manette, look upon the prisoner."
he first of these volunteers was Jerry C
 as that man would call it. She had not 
h aspect, I am sorry that the thing is d
"I am going to see his Ghost! It will be
dens! no, nor yet his half fardens--half
, the mill, the prison on the crag, the 
s that criminal in the eyes of the Repub
performing many other potent spells for 
the rivers of the South were encumbered 
-house could produce somebody in "the Ca
s before, but without removing a hand fr
rer recovered, by a process that he cann
he relations I hold with my fellow-creat
?"
t him, it evidently was for the strong f
; now, a log of dead wood drawn through 
r, and swept Defarge of the wine-shop ov
ich she said it, so touched him, that te
itary drums in the Palace Courtyard, as 
 specific permission.  If you do not cha
he healer, and tended the wounded man wi
row the light down upon him. Crowds of t
stood. The rider stooped, and, casting u
rrace, and saw for a moment, lying in th
d and overspread one another, as the wav
body-women waited on his wife. As one wh
d rain had lulled at last, after a long 
at I only got away from England at the r
He had never seen the instrument that wa
e thousand demons. There was no other mu
gathered bodily force to speak; but, his
dious way, with its three fellow-inscrut
h these ministers, but in the shed of th
e postilions, with a thousand gossamer g
g, which stirred and flickered in flames
nd they looked at the Jury, but at nothi
ad," observed Jacques Three, in a low vo
"I think not. It may be the character of
han _you_."
about her, they went out under the plane
avily of these questions. He sat by a ne
utters and between those iron bars, that
en arm uplifted there, had struck him a 
nded the story of the imprisonment, and 
"Yes. That she may be able to recognise 
 heresy about George Washington.
man can decide now to which of these mot
"What is this decree that the smith spok
Mr. Stryver had left them in the passage
"No. But the life I lead, Miss Manette, 
as not my reason for pursuing this famil
in a bright glow: then, suddenly held it
he afflicted heart--so happy in the memo
hand in hand round a shrivelled tree of 
ghter--he became a handsome man, not pas
street under a glimmering lamp, and wrot
s (and I would add, if it were not for t
ted state. Pride, contempt, defiance, st
Defarge and the rest bore him along; rem
 to compromise Tellson's, Mr. Lorry advi
ard-pot, but it turned out to be only a 
to say. Now, Mr. Cruncher!--Don't you mo
e universal watchfulness had completely 
ion were various and contradictory. Some
 spin, and all spun round another way. S
r's sword--like a gentleman.'
e referred to your consideration for her
umility, while the strong woman, having 
night, and had added the one stone face 
er in the course of my business day; in 
ssion of face on the part of a chief act
ing to persuade himself that his sweet t
"My father," exclaimed Lucie, "you are i
eyes to Mr. Lorry's face.
"Will you take charge of the letter?" sa
e remedy of setting to work in earnest t
"Walking here again, citizeness?"
"Treason!"
arched to the Hotel de Ville for judgmen
sable entertainment of his village durin
ising her eyes to his, "remember how str
ore regular.
t a sort that elevated humanity. Had he 
c-house, and smoked it, looking in at th
 the landlady way, or lodging-letting wa
employed as usual; and was there any sig
 in the autumn of the year one thousand 
cordance with this agreement, and any vo
"She kissed the boy, and said, caressing
of action.
"Gabelle."
a man of little more than thirty, but lo
is my family. Defarge, that sister of th
id Darnay, upon whose ear the mournful v
 this neighbourhood, touching the poor f
 of a door, and who were intently lookin
mark of the red cross is fatal to them, 
ld find the people, in a ghostly manner 
en the fountain appears to fall to that 
lodger, and they desired nothing more.
n, "Witness at that trial." Mr. Lorry im
, he was so frightened, being new to the
work, you indicate that you have read, u
ry; who might even live to weigh the pos
 that way was left for Heaven--which may
 Pross.
, towards you, what I am now, though out
 air. As everything turned upon her, and
not agree to the terms of the full Proje
 with folded arms, and observed in Engli
o which it must be added that every new-
 paper from her breast, but with her ala
led roof, and there were beams across. H
ced or secretly?
th these hinds, I recommended that your 
s air; "I wish you would keep to that. A
Miss Pross, "and therefore how could you
d always jealously sat behind the curtai
never slackened her unavailing search fo
s attentively, and his eyes in gloomy ab
le. "That's a Blazing strange answer, to
ps were beset by long files of them, pat
must require such a user to return or   
 other French crumbs that we didn't get 
s."
ch a lodging, and found a suitable one, 
onsider how heedless flies are!--perhaps
ne achievements as sentencing a youth to
"They tell me so."
w of the rack having been turned so ofte
But, he had oppressed no man, he had imp
ar!"
r gate. You know my vagabond and restles
ame. "Silence, patriots!"
, which were dark and made fast for the 
 to have the aid he sought. And that aid
little room, where Charles Darnay was so
 pale face and her cold hands. Do you ca
 banking-house again at midnight. In the
Chapter I      The Period      Chapter I
"How say you, Jacques?" demanded Number 
 his dead mother, on this injured family
eath. Is it not so, Jacques?"
s measurement, and the roar of the city 
ur lighter boxes of family papers went u
 fair face from him to look at the well-
ydney, "and has acknowledged the relatio
 and the night was so dark, and we were 
essive. If he needed a King and Queen to
d tell her nothing but that there was su
 gone: where could he be?
 that in which you are always with her. 
father, and I will go there every day."
"Very interesting remembrances!" said th
International donations are gratefully a
d and strongly guarded when they rode up
hen so strongly pleaded for permission t
tance otherwise. I have a presentiment t
all, is this; and with it, I will reliev
ustice, and all society (except the scar
n England."
ting after these earnest words were spok
 were to be tried together, next, as ene
 city gates. Soldiers with lanterns, at 
and fragments of dress: ligatures variou
Most people start at our Web site which 
y of the order of Monseigneur, and there
 this might last for many hours, and tha
he loves and graces looked upon him, gar
ation, and began to be struck at from be
, Bankers, London, England."
htful moral disorder, born of unspeakabl
 your wine, and come out. Who's this man
ow, that his suffering was strength and 
"The brothers were waiting in a room dow
e well content to precipitate himself ov
d listened. The coachman looked back and
 you hooroaring at? What do you want to 
 had gone by, and the nobility were troo
r was sent after him to beg the favour o
her?"
 permission, and had remained in that Ha
wered, with a timid snap of his fingers,
ghter. Soon, from a score of the great w
hanically submissive manner, without pau
his hand.
o Devonshire, and when the sight and sce
the last tidings came over.
.
the carriage of the Marquis, hanging by 
elf.) "John Solomon, or Solomon John? Sh
eir breasts, tearing their hair, and scr
 me to have mercy and to redress; and to
h with the sharp rain driving in their f
hen. Whether or no, I won't be prayed ag
u in no way, representing you in no way,
She and no other.
ation of the mind, and yet with the conf
harles was concealed from me. I had the 
s; no pendulum could be more regular.
hem all together, weaving the service of
 ever hearing him refer to the period of
of their parchments into the banking-hou
of this time and of the previous time of
unfrequently the victim of this disorder
appeared of his own will and act. Whethe
conditioned fellow in that sort of socie
As to this, his natural and not to be al
y through which I pass, is there a sleep
sculptured nose, which everybody recogni
beg permission to advise me how I could 
ng woman, a grand woman, a frightfully g
spoken, and they now slowly moved to me.
t save Charles, but they were very sligh
t--formerly the garret where a white-hai
l out of my mistake, and no harm is done
a mother's first duty is to blow her boy
 and deep.
. Monsieur Gabelle, chief functionary of
edium      and discontinue all use of an
rge, who had been uneasily biting his th
e works of darkness, in the easterly par
elonged, through some chinks or holes in
on dark; generally, rather handsome visa
 of poor peas and beans, patches of most
d and last point. He felt it to be the m
nt on perfect openness of character.
of the absolute whiteness of his hair, a
ch not only seems to impart to its posse
liver it?"
"Silence!" growled a red-cap, striking a
 that some of its noisiest authorities i
oom, and turned the key; then, came hurr
ing explicit with you, it might be very 
 a pallet bed), and he and Mr. Lorry rou
ed and Five, North Tower;" and when he l
t the door-post, knitting, and saw nothi
ls, and a rusted iron ring in one of the
orrow of a wretched pilferer who had rob
s not contain a notice indicating that i
 yesterday. Indictment delivered to him 
 I find a written paper. This is that wr
wringing them out, he folded them on his
 at this desk, not even Tellson's should
ed before his horses, and often barely e
han useless to speak to him, since, on b
"But, Doctor Manette. Look at me!"
ved estate on written instructions, to s
d I remember faces well. Made curious by
 was so terrified at the sight of him th
ed by the bunches of grass and straw tha
hour, and set off with his son to pursue
 Gabelle behind a servant on horseback, 
ent spells for compelling the Evil One, 
ossible, and when many other such things
 dawn appearing at last, and the rush-ca
l lying horribly in pretending to belong
a night again, together!"
sound."
te to have the task of being explicit wi
with his usual neat leg. The Doctor was 
of the axe; and that in spite of his utm
name?"
ences. His first impression was confirme
a few words more." He dictated again. "'
id Defarge, speaking with knitted brows,
he quiet corner in Soho, and had offered
un cautiously to hew away the lower stav
f, and he'll be cut into quarters. That'
-but it had dropped out and was gone. Th
hat do you mean?"
in possession of Monseigneur's house, an
s time it was incessantly hopping on beh
"It wasn't ending it, I suppose? I say, 
hen her forlorn young head drooped gentl
n where there is not a laudable ambition
e House again, "you are to remember, tha
forfeit to the people. His cursed life i
uaded. No! Taken out of harness one day 
n the fragments of a broken sword, lying
e had relinquished, was the one conditio
gment or fancy deemed best for the dawni
e and shadow, to the paltering lumps of 
child was born, that she came to the det
Mr. Lorry was out in the night, before h
Who could that be with Mr. Lorry--the ow
wing another finger.
er showing me such things. But then, ble
If Sydney Carton ever shone anywhere, he
 him. He procured a pipe from a neighbou
ts, at which neighbours cooked in common
at Tellson's sometimes wrote the latest 
ked at her as she was for hours.
s bosom, the English traitor and agent o
eight loaded horse-pistols, deposited on
"My child, you did see him, and it is Ch
ay that a petition has been presented to
r his head for a pillow, his son lay dow
 Mr. Lorry's with us. Are we ready? Come
"Louder," the woman recommends.
htened his glance, and animated his hear
There was a chair against the wall of th
 will give me more courage."
in their most barbarous disguise. False 
 he said, when they had got back to the 
e alone, Mr. Lorry asked him what he had
But, he was not far off, for presently s
r Manette. Who was called accordingly.
r do for me is done. I wish you to know 
y, as they walked along: taking care to 
"No!" protested Defarge. "Not if to lift
ill.
at the Christian era dated from the inve
"Nephew, I believe--but in any case dege
_You_, your father's daughter!"
evenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or
terestedly, devotedly. If ever there wer
ent ways. Even in my father's time, we d
ion were delivered over to Death's domin
e, ate some bread, and, having washed an
ually do think me. I intend to marry."
es from it to the horizon and looked aro
 burst and passed, I should hope that th
here was any opportunity or capacity of 
"If it will do you any good, Mr. Carton,
ormation about donations to      the Pro
eyond it, that not a voice, or a hand, o
d the lamp, but had put it aside in a co
 Bastille prisoner's kindred in La Force
lt his journey to have come to a crisis.
s, like a troublesome confusion of blood
 them, loaded with rounds of shot and ba
ss; "you were a bachelor in your cradle.
, wearied out by lonely wandering in a w
the Bastille, during the last month of t
ve a strong and eager interest to know w
nd looking at his visitor dubiously.
s the matter! She doesn't notice a word!
mething else besides 'indeed,' or you'll
, was formerly in the employ of the aris
 be a lion, he was an amazingly good jac
e, I am come to make my compliments to h
"You and your luck, Sydney! Get to work,
red it.--Mind! I say when I rendered it;
ence was ended. They passed the day in t
ut his throat on the altar of the dawnin
re the fine point of a small sword, with
s of poor rye where corn should have bee
e not tears all of agony that wetted his
"That I will, and readily," said Mr. Lor
ank garden-full of flaring companions.
 like a crockery vessel, and shiver his 
 their mouths that they might drink; and
d, and that he thought about it, however
Jacques Three, with his usual craving on
nd faster yet, he of course knew now. He
said, nothing worse could happen to him 
hat's a card not to be beaten. Have you 
oked down upon him with the loftiest con
oud of its smallness, proud of its darkn
Cries in exaltation of the well-known go
ere a loaded blunderbuss lay at the top 
ffering many.
ightened valet had got down in a hurry, 
rt.
ur applicable taxes.  The fee is      ow
n hair, all untrimmed, hanging loose abo
 home by the people to-day, may be conde
door he had reason for being half dead. 
indmill, a forest for the chase, and a c
"I forgot it," he said.
lude the troublesome consequence, that n
ed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprie
enderness for me; I ask for none; I am e
om lined with books and littered with pa
with us--much, much better than it has o
, the old gentleman exclaimed, "What do 
olid stone chateau which had itself beco
y gently raised her, and the hands that 
ed many weeks, when that man's brother s
cipher it--or, I ought to say, will she?
 in her marriage. How could she be! The 
runches looking about, as if he rather e
what little light the ground floor had, 
xpressly unconscious of him, and so part
languishing good airs that were left unc
.
"God knows. It was my way, I suppose."
cluding their arrangements to follow the
mperious, and they both moved, as these 
in time to check herself and go back. It
ies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic w
have stood at the Old Bailey itself.
o other passengers that night, but we fo
s, with a confused sea of red caps heavi
arth, he let his thin gauze curtains fal
"I am highly gratified," said Mr. Lorry,
"It is a far, far better thing that I do
me suitably retired spot, and there hang
rounded, each by its own jostling group 
n, than I should be annoyed by a man's o
"You are sure that he is not under too g
ington.
risen; and it was then that I lost the l
There was no fish for breakfast, and not
ry. "Yes--I--"
 one letter of his name or crimes from t
ion and with the straightforward force o
weet compassion!"
ften the pain in her own starved fingers
see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation 
 acted, seemed to run mad, like the peop
 VI     The Shoemaker
and made drunk by horror, that he sings,
, varying his apostrophe after missing h
Chateau and hut, stone face and dangling
odies of the violently drowned by night,
own eyes that he was a young 'un and a s
ung Jerry went on, until the three stopp
e punch, rejoined, "Why should I be asto
has happened? What has brought you here?
were, I won't be took the liberty with. 
yes, I have observed his daughter, more 
ok almost as if he laughed." He suggeste
in words. I want no more words."
with the greatest discretion and with th
yes lovingly to him as he stood beside h
rs in his breast; for, he reasoned with 
 slowly pressed and passed back; at last
our later."
sometimes repeated them to himself as he
the court, carried him along with them.
ociety of La Force were engaged in the p
"May be so, Mr. Darnay; may be not. Don'
"The figure was not; the--the--image; th
 and their dear child to his care, and d
tte!"
hat brought the words home, like a rusty
t, and a very faint voice responded to t
n wilderness. No. The change consisted i
ng pride in it. Nothing unbecoming tinge
t, and of youth for the oldest, Sydney's
nged by his fellow-tradesman whom he sto
om a friend who is under the displeasure
He looked back over his shoulder, and be
ess, I will give her to you. If there we
ur heretofore the Marquis, where is that
ed them outwards with an argumentative s
ld the starving people they might eat gr
e hand he had extended, and it seemed to
t room or not, you are uncertain what to
re to fall. And now, while he was compos
n him as they would have fallen on an ec
"Anxious and unhappy, but very beautiful
as not too wet or inclement for her chil
he building again in the night, and had 
he very children scarcely noticed him. A
ightly pinched at the top of each nostri
is rust off long ago, but nothing would 
ss Pross, nodding her head emphatically,
will be a ugly customer to you, if you d
 pity on me and not to exercise any powe
ssness of manner came powerfully in aid 
n thread into the peaceful tissue of the
ithin a few rounds of the clock, was to 
rarely lightened toil of the day among t
-since she was ten years old. And it's r
 hand fervently and gratefully, and had 
ost as many as the shops) were, all, gri
 chateau was opened to him.
truck more commonly than dogs. But, the 
why the worshippers of Monseigneur never
 a single sin, poured their distracting 
 No. Yet I know the face."
Mr. Cruncher's temper was not at all imp
unge in, very shortly afterwards, and th
gh to harass him; and it lightened Mr. L
erits; that is enough."
on him. They were overclouded again, the
ed blunderbusses in among them, loaded w
ame, of Gaspard's execution. Ah! the poo
d at her darling's golden hair in the li
istened to the countryman's story; the m
 of Lucie Darnay, and keep these feet fa
asked him what it was he had ordered.
rs to keep the wet off. Apart from the p
easily get near him.
 national. What he could save for the ow
pes that never shone upon their own somb
rdon me; but I usually inquire who does 
on--a matter of business. As I was sayin
e great majority were silent and still, 
at about two in the afternoon, sir. Bed,
 lay traps? Oh dear no. Or to do anythin
kept the required watch upon his mother.
 and, after dinner, Lucie proposed that 
rotest and to make it a selfish thing.
s hands in his waistband, glancing round
 and riving and shouldering and passing,
s his lips, but he took it in his, and r
day, like greater places of business, it
 raise it (the listener's eyes were alwa
to your better information it may be les
y drinking at the wine-shop of Monsieur 
, even then: so tremendous was the noise
ife; but, what he most noticed in the tw
 her hand; "such a cruel, bad sight."
y Two.
owned by night, and prisoners were shot 
e wishes to see the fine world--the King
ere laughing. It got into shadows on the
 he was an old man now, overborne with a
 in the banking business we usually call
"Is it not impressive, Mr. Darnay?" aske
"I don't know that you 'never will.'"
m capable of now, Miss Manette, I have c
rtyard close to the left here," pointing
t his own image; "why should you particu
 laws, forms, and ceremonies, had not fi
t each question. Carton, standing over h
"I will be submissive to you. I see in y
n with another aristocratic spy of the s
"The lady was young, engaging, and hands
e not unfrequently do, to express genera
this chronicle among the rest--along the
 you, the hands of baby, girl, and woman
the curtain, hastened to Lucie, and told
n your head, if you lay a finger on me!"
rsed, and Monsieur Gabelle came down bri
an official among foreigners, and such f
ed, Defarge laid his strong hand on the 
"Good."
ce illustration of the precept, that "Wh
ded down to such a dull uniformity of pa
"
 horror, whence I every hour tend nearer
a neat brown monsieur; how is he called?
. Eager faces strained round pillars and
Besides the glancing tears that shone am
ase of medicines here;' and brought it f
-growing interest. So, with great persev
 raggedly bald, he had stiff, black hair
 she finds it best not to hint at it to 
ly to pass between any young gentleman a
 from a dark corner, and identified me w
 He was then dying fast. As I turned my 
ky hair looking as if it must tear the s
 forth, had in preparation to send to Ca
ped up to where Mr. Lorry and Mr. Darnay
f the reckonings over which she presided
o, for, while it was making the whole ni
 house fronts, walls, and doorways, as h
sober, and in various neutral states bet
s the blood of Foulon, Give us the head 
t, but not many; there were officers to 
 were not for the resemblance I detected
e touching their light surfaces made him
blue-flies were dispersing in search of 
t notice is included.  Thus, we do not n
ws with a cool business air. "It is nece
f those.
nerations of great luxury and expense, w
hat her father, even in this sad state, 
He murmured for answer: "True. I forget 
t a man who instructs youth knows him? W
med and softened to this pitiable girl.
sons to make success probable, I speak o
thy to be; how the watchful eyes of thos
. I was alone with her, when her forlorn
g, and all staring and glaring with beas
sed by the copyright holder.  Additional
always so much stronger than hate, clasp
The witness was quite sure.
"I have. Is that a weapon in your hand?"
t looking up. "It ought to have been fin
burning at the stake and contending with
gular indoor messengers attached to Tell
e Court, held his fortnightly reception 
 You may copy it, give it away or re-use
ce of the earth, and doing without them:
 like the present period, that some of i
eadful time. Now, pray let us think! My 
ieve my own mind. I had kept the matter 
rd. They will recompense him now, I hope
o escape the hazard of originating any o
nces were indifferent to him, so that he
ay from in dread--pressed him into an ob
 had been before the general gaze from t
you may obtain a refund from the person 
that I should go to Paris, there to comm
taking the life of an atrocious murderer
ross's own perception that they two were
tion. I have known this, night and day, 
t for yourself better than we can descri
 a funeral with this uncommon attendance
 easy it has grown for me, the wearer of
to the prison every day. "She came out h
"I thought, my father," said Lucie, excu
e fire; removed from them, a group of so
"Yes, dearest Charles," with her hands o
two centuries ago.
l trod those stones. From being irresolu
hose rags; men devilishly set off with s
n; but, Doctor Manette not returning, an
 who has never done any good, and never 
g you were going to France at this time 
d the precious little bells went ringing
he left hand in the hollow of the right,
 a brave man, my Gaspard! It is better f
tly do; as people in a dark room, watchi
The men were terrible, in the bloody-min
Miss Pross, submitting herself to his ju
oud of his strength. "You must not be we
nothing amiss. This was done without any
"What's on?" he asked, in a whisper, of 
When she was again in his arms, he said 
nd to-night; who's your pretty witness?"
now how many--I can't collect my thought
her world?"
erence, and was even to be shoved back i
or two, in the third of the rooms; a rou
ed from his sight forever.
ing, Mr. Lorry fell asleep at his post. 
 and that the felons were trying the hon
 two in number, even if a closet with a 
his, than his own.
led in the distinctness or the order of 
! I address myself to that Doctor." Then
e like Tellson and Company was flourishi
 a coach, and his daughter had followed 
e it. I only want your authority. I am s
tion.
 would have it forty-two; ten more heads
I ask you to explain?"
 boot-cleaning and his general preparati
"More fit for that, I think, than to rem
xactly.
 far, and his feet were footsore, and hi
are existence there, as its people had--
; and yet, although the messengers have 
"Quick to see what happened! If a girl, 
d softly followed my servant, Ernest Def
dor and staircase, many doors clanging a
made the best of his way into the quiet 
ou and me, an unornamental) piece of fur
he network of fine nerves about his mout
 grasped his hand in return, and neither
"Out?"
id, in a sample tone of the voice he wou
uing this family to annihilation, and I 
riminal's gaol. Games at cards languishe
s is lifted out next after him. He has n
d shook. The mill which had worked them 
pike with a red cap on its top. In this 
"Do you, by Jupiter?" said Stryver. "I a
cles of daily consumption that were want
ntain, and was down in the mud and wet, 
t with the lamp, Mr. Lorry closing the l
now prescribed by decree. It had been es
if statues were decreed in Britain, as i
e had thought better of that marrying ma
squeezing himself back again.
 of his saucer. "Ah! I think so. I belie
are not in the least degree worthy of th
. Lucie. His daughter. French. Which is 
believe it now. You are not"--the appreh
at sister of the mortally wounded boy up
ngeance.
"It is true what madame says," observed 
ular driver, who was perched beside him,
g his way to a large and lucrative pract
and several voices remarking on the effi
The wind is rushing after us, and the cl
down his empty drinking vessel and smack
n her girlhood, bare-foot and bare-legge
cie was never sure, from hour to hour, b
honour and happiness to stand with the f
ed, making guns for the Army of the Repu
nd paused--"I may kiss her?"
in them as Miss Pross had, and would hav
n passing, of his destination, and went 
king up at his face in the interchange o
"
ok, complying with the rules is very eas
re about it."
aris, where the picturesque confusion of
restored to you within a few hours; I ha
"All well, Jacques."
are the regular inhabitants of the house
and his eyes on the ceiling as they had 
ked wall than a head of hair, that the b
f Messrs. Tellson and Co., Bankers, Lond
re face in which there was no vestige of
m from pounding against the next passeng
 floppin' again the business to that deg
ite so much confidence, or quite so easy
 our breasts, only needing circumstances
e," observed the nephew.
ve, when I recall this day, that the las
ith the bottles and glasses ready to his
st with fewer than two gold watches in h
t with me; pray enable me to see it a li
"I'd hold half a guinea that _he_ don't 
ance I detected between you and me, an u
of the case, tumbled against him, and fr
 having a reason, to which you are no st
es of such precious _protégés_. No, ge
Those were drinking days, and most men d
, I think. It is probable that there had
The necessity of being angry in a suppre
He turned towards him in his chair, but 
never reproach me again, and have heard 
ing. If you must go flopping yourself do
a lighted torch in his hand--separated h
oldiers and patriots, asleep and awake, 
g ready--hewed off his head.
 an announcement that he had arrived at 
e distinction: it is a piece of good for
ot. It can't be," said the spy.
ss to other copies of      Project Guten
r. Lorry and Miss Pross, while engaged i
r direction before I go."
e, and the beating at his door, combined
As Mr. Lorry received these confidences,
 in the prospect--Life on the lowest ter
s not another of the dreams in which he 
the hob, and in the midst of the wreck o
ome intense associations of a most distr
nced, than tears were shed as freely as 
"As a wife and mother," cried Lucie, mos
m even in his agitation, Mr. Lorry obser
ds in the Doctor's writing:
 little Lucie lay on her bosom. Then, am
ou have observed his face when the paper
ally don't want to endanger my existence
udden mastery you kindled me, heap of as
tor has suffered much; you have seen him
 be gone agin, in this manner. I am as r
 finger, standing near our little founta
 old Shrewsbury School," said Stryver, n
A wonderful fact to reflect upon, that e
has lost. Dear, dear, dear! To think tha
"I cannot find it," said he, "and I must
 if he could prevail upon himself to imp
With that, he shook the snuff from his f
im and the next.
ed in the official version posted on the
r. Royalty was gone; had been besieged i
sight of men. Mr. Cruncher, sitting on a
The dejected Mrs. Cruncher shook her hea
an excited audience on the crimes agains
"Pray take a seat, sir." In a very clear
e), and that the rain had startled him.
United States without paying any fees or
hey had used their abolished privileges 
"am I not eligible?"
nd-dockyard town, waiting for another pe
"What other?"
t the jury were swearing in; and that Mr
head with reverence.
ompletely, as to be a highly intelligent
court was quick with its work.
er, and, not trusting it out of my own h
 and happy, in that England which I shal
ourself now, to do exactly as I bid you;
one of the three could have said, from a
ed down in the rain to do honour to a di
t I'll stand by you, right or wrong."
grieve. I encouraged Doctor Manette in t
"Yes."
en the dominions of our said serene, ill
he people somewhere; but, I had never se
, in vain, for he slept with his arms cr
er in my doleful cell in the Bastille, d
 This had been so very noticeable, so ve
er to it in this one passage of her life
ought by so many, and they are granted (
r who so little deserved her affection, 
nging loose about him. His indifference 
 have been a scavenger in the street, if
that I am incorrigible?"
 repose of spirit, and became absorbed i
knee on his bench and his saw stopped in
"How much?"
 face to do you good--that you are a dev
got out of Paris, legs uppermost and hal
known what to do first, or which way to 
 to the followers of the Good Republican
take the word she had repeated, when he 
er mail?"
"
 Charles Evremonde, called Darnay.
s but another now," and turned to walk a
e may only ask for a gentleman from Tell
works provided that
er, and said at last, gently disengaging
r-nails with a very questionable closene
, and asked, as a stranger, to be direct
 are the better for it?"
ust be knocked into you."
n his following of the evidence. He had 
assengers, who had expeditiously secrete
 came down, until they were in the ragin
 Miss Pross, whose eyes were red with fe
"Since it is my misfortune, Mr. Carton, 
d, and the other was opened but a very l
d spoke of Sydney Carton as a problem of
 tolerate the idea of their wives laying
, directed by a gaoler. I examine it, ve
arm having happened to Charles; that I h
hey each put a hand upon his shoulder, a
ents to which it referred; a wondering t
k to trip him up. All this time it was i
a child. Will you wake me?"
 turned to him with his eyes opened wide
erty. Where was his property? He didn't 
he shook his precocious paunch.
otel de Ville, and might be loosed. Neve
early brooding than drinking; for, many 
the places where it had been most abunda
nsacted, and of the peril in which our b
 out of work. Mr. Lorry had been idle a 
 even with nobility at their backs, may 
Have no imagination at all."
"It was done when you were more than ten
 of some games of forfeits and a little 
orse, and was not at its worst, a woman 
e the play in Bedlam--only the former en
an I have. Why, I have been ashamed of y
erwork and many fees to meet and keep up
His resolution was made. He must go to P
tion so unusual, so touching, so belongi
e stones on the highway such morsels of 
e body to steady it for mutilation. "Low
afternoon of a certain fine Sunday when 
"If I may ride with you, Citizen Evremon
a dogged determination, and they looked 
you refer this attack?"
he best part of a hundred years.
ions, she could not bear to have her sig
t entering the city.
o.
my face!" said Mr. Cruncher, with signs 
"I don't suppose anything about it but w
re on, the words were in the echoes of h
eddening a little angrily, "in another c
 eyes and a good bold breadth between th
gentleman who had all this time been loo
 you think of our not starting from this
wn upon him.
 both), they would have been an exceedin
miens, and it was all done in open day, 
Produced by Judith Boss
oned away in the midst of it.
e chair they had thrown a red flag, and 
"By whom?"
 we know it, with our eyes. 'Come on!' s
, and saw nothing.
 the government to break down in this at
howsoever his matrimonial relations cond
the chateau dropped unseen and unheard--
elihood upon it of ever moving again; le
n of unspeakable suffering, intolerable 
ept from them, often enough? All our liv
"Perhaps he obtained it as his last and 
n the highway twenty times in a stage, b
n favour of your husband and child, and 
ll in the pay of the aristocratic Englis
It was the dark and dirty corner of a sm
t, said:
 Three," cried Defarge; "and do you, Jac
barian aspect, tall, in wooden shoes tha
t!"
.
rtainly did look rather like. How the vi
ing monotonously haunted by one sad idea
hand. Mr. Lorry sat at a table, among th
time. Little Lucie she taught, as regula
ng that the Project Gutenberg-tm collect
s. He had no good-humour in his face, no
 for by! How does it feel? Is it worth b
 was stretched insensible on the ground.
t allow disclaimers of certain implied w
t Shrewsbury, and ever since Shrewsbury,
ilence with an effort, "that the relapse
 But her father cheered her, and said at
e soft and compassionate voices of women
 though confinement and hard fare no dou
 and they separated. But, in the stillne
his mother, strongly deprecated any pray
"You and your yes, Jerry," said Mr. Crun
 made a feint of undressing when he went
e, and had grown more and more rare.
 heavily.
t secret. I smite this bosom with these 
 form of good breeding that it was not r
ly released and dropped it.
ded:
mbling forward. He wore the white riding
tting his coat on, traversed the hall, o
ble, and as an elegant translator who br
rrangements made by his own mind--we all
ong ago. He was happy in the return he h
"I observed that they were both wrapped 
lt water, do you suppose Providence woul
ght. He entered the courtyard and remain
is agreement, you must obtain permission
ace, once (and twice) the Tuileries, whe
"Well! About two leagues beyond the summ
 after ringing a small bell on the table
ic conveyance; it was additionally disco
nothing else connected with it to be loo
d these objects in what benighted mind h
 friend's ashy face.
In wild dreamlike procession, embracing 
in England, through too much unsuccessfu
e, Madame Defarge cast a careless glance
Affected, and impressed with terror as t
orget them.'"
 groaning and calling out: "Yah! Spies! 
ulfilment of Miss Pross's prediction.
sing the inn servants. "Why don't you go
 years."
a man apart. In the exercise of his skil
hivered, and complied.
at the full, and the number of perpendic
, all linked shoulder to shoulder, and h
 strike into others an instinctive recog
ediately."
 did he come out, agitated and surprised
"If those eyes of yours were bed-winches
act no special notice in the streets, wa
 take this ribbon from your hair, and sh
take your place in the circle, and let u
"How do you know it?"
r services; are they not?"
hild for me."
 fixed and unchangeable, never to be bro
 of shot and ball; thieves snipped off d
horror.
nt.
ed with murder! In the midst of these fl
that she was the person referred to.
 and the wheel--the axe was a rarity--Mo
er, as his father's did, kept the requir
entleman of the name of Lorry answer str
"Show it me!"
ut only saw a man and a woman standing s
hose boots you wear, and draw on these o
n of the difficulty with which our busin
 gun that day, I resolve, when the place
 brother Sheep over a bottle of wine, th
or try to restore him, that--as if by ag
at it must be latent in the people somew
at he had written, sanded it, and handed
 to him when he dropped dead under it, t
nd was in their hands for a moment; but 
d to cry "No!" until they left off, of t
ess was called to identify him as having
 the joints? Why, I am a boy, sir, to ha
ing of feet over the floor, and four rou
 door and taking away the key. She then 
nd no trouble there."
t," cried a farrier, making at him in a 
e would see some rough figure approachin
f every man there were turned upon them.
 advocate's accomplishments. But, a rema
"
arge himself. Saint Antoine was clamorou
ying her hand with a slight frown on her
readily comprehend this when you see it.
d from his eyes.
silently disappeared; if he had been spi
ch had rendered him "not to be caught." 
t. "Yes, madame, yes. I am English!"
d grudge again, is it, with your shamefu
 laid it on the table. I had considered 
s to him, and they go on together, walki
 the spot.
ng of these creatures. They have but one
ents, and having looked to the supplemen
.
s, and had relocked), I had heard cries 
Mr. Lorry held it open in his hand, gazi
hen it would not leave him, but followed
ssociated prisoners on the night of his 
brothers crossed the road from a dark co
ith acclamation, and the coach was immed
"No. Foreign!" cried Carton, striking hi
ose who sat near, and from time to time 
he likeness.
ple in all walks of life.
n dear father's, always active and self-
Mr. Stryver, shaking his forensic forefi
 works in the collection are in the publ
draw on these of mine."
eir condition. But, the time was not com
 They knitted worthless things; but, the
ly as his lips. Fortified towns with the
ed--
Still, Madame Defarge, pursuing her way 
ured breathing, he was heard to say:
, and dirty street through which they pa
lve yards square. As the tall man sudden
 found."
rose before him, and he even saw himself
the commencement."
re buried, in deep graves of black mahog
oming and going at odd times, I should a
 as he could make. Finally, he walked ac
ry of Tellson's Bank, an English gentlem
red, in a gold-laced coat, pumps, and wh
en Defarge's wine-shop parted with its l
on, half an hour after Mr. Lorry could n
e requirements.  We do not solicit donat
ld show itself in some renewal of this d
"What!" said Mr. Cruncher, looking out o
 all brought to be sharpened, were all r
down, walking up and down, until he is c
n I was talking to Lucie--"
re to see. You may kiss your hand toward
 an arm, and still breathed! And it was 
made provident remittances to Tellson's,
"Have the goodness to give me a little g
 were left to get out of their difficult
ublic domain print editions means that n
ith which he saw a stranger.
At length the sun rose so high that it s
her until the last moment, when it was n
day, the blood that was to mingle with t
the last finishing blows had told mighti
There was another silence.
I have acted for them, and not against, 
his work.
APH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, 
ace partly aside.
"Who?" demanded the traveller.
han usual, for the best public thoroughf
way on their hands and knees.
 looked on until the coach drove away. H
immense processions, one ever tending we
an defiance. It was the settled manner o
sity, of the honour of your noble name!"
 I wonder he is not at the head of them.
h honour, Mr. Darnay. It was an infamous
"Be comforted!" he said, "I am not worth
ge-trees in boxes in a Bank courtyard, a
eeded, those two of the large jaws, and 
"What? Walking here again, citizeness?"
 recollected what they had said to him, 
haded forehead, beat his foot nervously 
t rumbled menacingly in the corner all t
hort, is it not a concession to the misg
?" and shook hands. There was a peculiar
rough the day; thirdly, because he happe
er husband, she would come to herself to
sought the ground and looked about him i
d in the hearts of their descendants, ge
"I fear you are not well, Mr. Carton!"
"I have had the happiness, Doctor Manett
of his high breeding; it was not from wi
d again until the clock struck Two.
er, in a tone of quiet business confiden
"Is that well?"
 and the keeper of the wine-shop going s
d been without work before, had this wor
 Good day, age about forty, height about
worn out."
 was it! How was it!"
ith some little embarrassment as he seat
Sydney Carton. Some half-dozen times a y
d by all true echoes for ages and ages.
"
 creature is constituted to be that prof
 his own on the edge of the grave that h
 new again; he knew very well, that to t
hat had as much spoiling in them as Miss
was much on a par with the Country; whic
o sense of pity, even for herself. If sh
tures while he spoke, as if in incidenta
ad crept along the wall to a point where
e rouleau of gold was left at my door in
 think how much he had thrown away, and 
u.
s, and did not start upon his excursion 
n is again about to go to bed. I am coll
icult to penetrate that Mr. Lorry, picki
ets, and secrete his papers. That, he (M
 the blinds."
 a far more grudging condescension and p
 few."
me."
remember it, dear Heart! I will remember
uld have retired to her own chamber and 
"They will be rapid. Fear not!"
"Which I have the vanity to hope is not 
aracter, and with the supple freedom of 
ched into the prison in the night, and h
oks with only a loose network of volunte
I have seen them. We may go."
band, who had kept his bright eye observ
enty hours!
He had laid aside his coat and waistcoat
y, would always--as on the trial--evoke 
ined immovable close to him when the lon
"Yes, dearest."
his boot was still upon the hot embers o
nstrations ceased, as suddenly as they h
himself lest he should hurt her; therefo
 for Monseigneur to dispense with one of
Mr. Lorry said what he could to calm her
Mr. Cruncher, wiping his forehead with h
"Excuse me, as a persistent man of busin
ther, in the middle of the cell. So! Lig
ugh how this man knows it was a sham, is
sent himself in Soho, and there declare 
 he was, when I first saw him after they
ery leaf; as if _they_ were buried, in d
(mistaken or not mistaken) have that hop
unication with the world outside?"
er men than he,--that it faltered here a
business charge he was a strict man of b
 in more of the details of the scene tha
lp came from that quarter, they turned b
n Madame Defarge sat at her counter, as 
guard to the coachman, and listened. The
drawing very near indeed.
raid of, for he divined their meaning, t
d a better service." The Doctor gave him
 sounding of that string again. I trust,
oler opened a low black door, and they p
e eyes of the face that was like a fine 
ever seen him before?"
ring. It gave her a strange and new sens
 over), when Mr. Cruncher, touching him 
ght here. You can bear a little more?"
y live a long time: she may even live to
that young lady. Help the gentleman to t
w is he called?--in a little wig--Lorry-
rn by fingers, these demonstrations ceas
that breath of Heaven. Sighs of the wind
 you not see me here, in France, of my o
n such energy as yours do great things b
wly? Can they not be induced to go faste
ve caused them to look large, under his 
s."
n of that plotting and indignant refugee
be sacrificed."
orry's attention, and show him where you
ed-cap. "As if it was not a favour to be
d exceedingly bright eyes. The hollownes
ds the whole time. His eyes came slowly 
 third course being thereby rendered pra
 remember nothing of me?"
 adjective away, Mr. Lorry replied, "No,
rge jug of cold water, a basin, and a to
 a honest tradesman don't pick up his fa
e heard the answering cry.
and person, as to look like a man who ha
he street, and past the fountain--"
Manette."
ut. Got out at last, with earth hanging 
e days when all these things are to be a
submissive man, "it is a child."
within the locks and bars of the prison 
t. At midday, the roll of drums. Soldier
 Cruncher worried his breakfast rather t
rry, in something of a dogged manner. "I
e village. Casement windows opened, craz
The sea of black and threatening waters,
d the prisoner a hundred times worse. La
a cinderous smell, in a cloud of dust, t
 Lucie," Mr. Lorry repeated. "Yes. I won
 would but have been with her as it was 
, echoes of other steps that never came 
it would part us, even by the length of 
ry.
r a hard contest with that eccentric act
e and hope--so exactly was the expressio
 the faithful service of the heart; so r
 on the bank. When he awoke and was afoo
Greece and Rome, to public benefactors, 
l all his wrong. He forced back the gath
, catching sight of that novelty, they f
tled a foe.
arret, were mingled with them again in t
I'm not a going to be made unlucky by _y
ger, with something of the complacency o
ght at his bewilderment, and agreed for 
served, and so neat in their contrivance
prisoner who made an attempt on the life
as she gave this evidence, and, in the p
care and caution, made his selections fr
d said,
ce. It was not for his dignity to notice
he youthful occasion of his renouncing b
e that will attract Mr. Lorry's attentio
aughter, sir."
"Blest if she ain't in a queer condition
ing streets diverging, all peopled by ra
"Before Shrewsbury, and at Shrewsbury, a
 of morning. Surely, not so the ringing 
d given away--you may do practically ANY
arming you, and the rest will soon be fa
 your husband to dishonour his business?
ty, Equality, Fraternity, or Death!
are the earthquake?"
to him; "rip open that bed, and search t
d, in that attitude, like slumbering bea
stable. There was a low plastered ceilin
the keeper of the wine-shop stood lookin
r in Saint Antoine, touching the unhappy
His appearance; is it known?"
g in a room down-stairs, impatient to ri
tched to Paris for the purpose."
He had got somebody to scrawl it up for 
ould be proscribed under your hand at th
age, you would pick out the richest and 
h of their valuable stores and secrets a
he Dover mail thought to himself, that F
Sydney Carton, idlest and most unpromisi
 in which the smiths worked, making guns
Having said it, he passed behind the lit
on his own separate and individual accou
ul of your employing such a designation;
ss looked up, saw what it was, struck at
ing when the Doctor and his daughter sat
 finger.
Mr. Lorry regained the blind.
bore a considerable resemblance to a pai
e?"
articular case, and left nothing else co
's no forgery."
mebody. Find out some respectable woman 
fe to bestow, with the compassion and la
ghter, and only child."
op of Monsieur Defarge. It had begun on 
with his grisly urchin beside him, a vas
nly one adventurous traveller left be co
hand upon his shoulder. After looking do
on exactly as it occurred. I have no dou
Mr. Lorry took the hesitating little han
asking, miserably, for his shoemaking to
of mist closing round it as it began the
hour of the early afternoon, on the Barr
prised; I knew you were here; I know of 
ure of that," said the guard, in gruff s
 not what harm--if his door was left ope
s raised a gallows forty feet high, pois
ers, with a lingering interest in the wa
w he afterwards recognised him then?
nds in his waistband, looking at the fir
, of mortal fear, advanced with his hand
ods, four heavy-treading, unkempt figure
well that Miss Pross was the family's de
 cap in hand, wiped his swarthy forehead
works unless you comply with paragraph 1
"Monsieur, it is a cell."
ch is he?"
 glare at that tremendous heresy about G
ned back in his seat, and looked steadil
rt could trace him; if he had an enemy i
had ever shown himself to be, and it was
stomachs faint and empty, they beguiled 
 a fineness in accordance with his stock
n's, in a stately way, tolerated the odd
g out the second who had entered, "is fr
s so concentrated and intensified, that 
d. They kept him out in the unwholesome 
ooking up at the light in the window of 
ndre Manette, unhappy prisoner, do this 
"Monseigneur, I looked at the man."
me to-day. She may ask for Mr. Jarvis Lo
ied himself to the collection of a secon
ause he had no means of living in France
!" cried she, wringing her hands. "What 
hind the prisoner. Carton, pressing forw
assure himself that he had taken his pla
ou!"
spile a man, I think. It's hard enough t
"Heaven knows we don't," returned Miss P
"'There is prodigious strength,' I answe
"The chateau and all the race," returned
 Will you come and see her?"
ench by birth. And speaking of Gaspard (
 her fingers knitted, and her eyes looke
 mass of scarecrows heaving to and fro, 
imself as a notable sufferer under the o
erg EBook of A Tale of Two Cities, by Ch
s would do it! But I would leave the mat
ill, I prefer that supposition."
ay your confidence? I know this is a con
The wretched wife of the innocent man th
torted, correcting him, and deftly knitt
er. Go tell her that I wish to see her. 
 such a man could do to them, within the
"Of what?" asked the Doctor.
ter, Time, and they shall be seen to be 
"I communicate to him that secret. I smi
fall from her hands, and her eyes would 
y."
 life, maybe--for it was dreadfully spar
and fragments of dead stick to burn, str
lect my thoughts. An errand of generosit
n, and Court; let him see them on Sunday
He imitated the action of a man's being 
 is Miss Manette. If you had been a fell
d in every fragment of the small modicum
to know the usage; he had seen hundreds 
occupant was steeped in crimson. "It wil
to see only Madame Defarge in her seat, 
st countries are in a constant state of 
 the restoration of a state of things th
"
ess. My thoughts, when they were wildest
used and laughing, listened in the echoi
"Quite, my child."
 ground beside her, and held her to her 
re him, to compose his mind to what it m
. There had been more of early brooding 
ation had not loaded it with their intan
 I could or would breathe a word of what
second. 'Doctor, your clients are people
 enough that he could and did see her wh
s lightened of its load as she felt it o
nd tri-coloured cockades, armed with nat
 the effect by opening it again, Defarge
 a guard of two armed patriots attended 
oor of the court, laid their hands on th
to free it slowly (if such a thing is po
st all go his way--tend to his own power
of craving and eagerness that had nothin
actical suggestions being much needed, t
"I do seek that."
be able, after that time, to strengthen 
g yourself, I think, sir?"
 and her overcoming of her sorrow, to de
Mr. Lorry's eyes were again attracted to
 grizzled mender of the roads joined the
ristocrat who has gone to the Guillotine
She looked so beautiful in the purity of
ng-table in it and never had a dinner, a
t an easy trot, stopping pretty often at
 of Hounsditch, he had received the adde
yet I'm none the better for it in pocket
"I do so, father, and I send him my Soul
is so much too much of you!"
is, to support life in myself; but do yo
none. Where could he be?
but vain endeavour to find a better one.
rt; insomuch, that a great majority of t
 have prospered. He had expected labour,
orning light and heat, contemplating the
not to be expected that anybody should b
.
tune: she is a charming creature, and I 
ame Defarge and her party seemed then to
rence of fear and slavery."
 delicacy which, if such things be old-f
e governor would not be marched to the H
any years, he had no strong drink. Since
ll me it is madness and remain here. Cha
There is no help for you in any action o
nd Co.
umstances. But, imbued from her childhoo
t; then he points his finger, with somet
 had all run out between their fingers. 
a species of loft over a stable. There w
ave mercy on all who are in danger!"
, and came back with a large jug of cold
 now being lighted. It began to be rumou
rug of the shoulders. "The people from t
inside out; showing how Barsad and Cly w
"But our Defarge," said Jacques Three, "
 asked you to escape; but do I? When I a
nking, standing or seated, sprinkled abo
at all; my house has been destroyed--raz
ife, and this poor boy had had any but a
x, and in the light of these, standing o
orning in succession, on which there had
shamed of anything," returned Sydney; "y
of their whips; leisurely, the old posti
o be the old buildings of London--"have 
he populace in the streets. Ridges of fa
At the instant when Darnay saw a rush in
take to make and store the lightning? Te
r, in anticipation of what he was soon t
 for it."
Instantly Madame Defarge's knife was in 
"Does he resemble either of these two pa
As the concentrated expression returned 
anything that could be seen of it. In th
ould some day avenge his father. (There 
ks even without complying with the full 
"For the reason that my hand had this ef
nsieur Defarge going first with the lamp
, and cadaverous faces, who had emerged 
ntly from the Banking House. Miss Pross 
ind you here!"
ou have seen, to a chosen few."
 his.
lways petitions!"
The sights he had seen there, with brief
s and intent face, so deep in his task, 
"I can't say."
we are ready! The Bastille!"
pon it than she dare believe, or hope. Y
e to tell you. You must comply with it--
er my care. As I serve my gun that day, 
 the affections, the feelings, the--the-
fe, footsteps not easily made clean agai
est account. That, if it were in the nat
Only his daughter had the power of charm
been, in his anxiety, so anxious to obta
, and had held the examined by the drape
t on the road, would order its horses in
in the distant burial-places, reserved, 
in fell, and where the mender of roads w
who replied, 'Since about this hour last
other, interrupting. "I knew it. You wan
assing conjuration, then resume thy form
th you and I will be mercifully sheltere
égés_. No, gentlemen; he'll always sho
 of the last Louis but one, of the line 
 play the losing one. No man's life here
into the city for peasants' carts bringi
rned on its hinges a very little way, an
tion with a formal proposal to take Miss
This is she.
ow many months? Nine, ten, eleven?"
 this wretched creature out. Got out at 
started afresh while he recalled the spe
ess and recklessness. He spoke of him, i
The hour was come, when Saint Antoine wa
showing the soul to be stronger than the
 she knows nothing of my fate--for I can
air, a pair of blue eyes that met his ow
 carrying the money; the latter, the bas
n went on as before. "For the sake of he
n't speak of me to her. As I said to you
oes, from a distance, that rumbled menac
ic Prosecutor.
But indeed, at that time, putting to dea
ct of this confidence, that you may at o
her head lovingly on her father's breast
 old Sydney Carton of old Shrewsbury Sch
ad remitted the imposts they had ceased 
 the mender of roads and his fellows, up
said Miss Pross. "Would it be much out o
ubbing of his chin and signing with his 
ued arms, thrust this man back, dragged 
ows of one."
e taken away--"
ght him round the waist. For a few secon
ly a round dozen of years, after rapping
as the usual progress of a mob.
g lady of not more than seventeen, in a 
the dingiest of windows, which were alwa
"Fifty-two."
d.
uses of some tillers of the heavy lands 
d unusually energetic; he applies himsel
 had three times already come to a stop,
ptions of a gentle mind?
e protest was faint and brief. The remod
 House here to our House there, who know
 this agreement for keeping the Project 
s he had once done often. He never came 
 over the white road.
eserved, may have struck the prisoner's 
e liable to be suspected, and gentility 
nothing had ever been done, or omitted t
 "O my dear friend! My husband!"
ack again, and so in due course of time 
 he ought to have systematically worked 
She did, indeed, start. And she caught h
as I shall answer for these my last reco
me with you people. He cannot pay someth
ed three strong men besides the cook in 
as raised, or hurry made, that seemed un
vering purpose. While he kept himself in
 load, had been planned out last night, 
ore than he could do himself.) "John Sol
all I hear what you have done, either fr
For three heavy hours, the stone faces o
Another fisherman was picked up here--an
ir distracting babble into any ears they
er thoughtful to-night, for we have some
 the pleasures of the chase--now, found 
erry!"
s accessories, in the older and more cro
Tower--ages ago. What is your name, my g
After looking at her, as if the sound of
rviews with the House, was now the news-
mes, I should ask that I might be permit
 the gaolers. The spy, who was pale, tur
s hand in his breast, looked down.
not mine; and I promise to respect it."
, and might, at intervals, take him back
u like," said the Doctor.
 Stryver, holding up his glass. "Are you
 cautiously proceed to seek direction an
 great and unexpected peril; but it is a
he had seen in Court--except two, for wh
Stryver (the prisoner's counsel), whethe
and two others. High vaulted rooms with 
eproachfully in the face, that, as he wa
questions and make no stipulations. Ther
h wonderful arts, that the woman and gir
ouse, where other patriots in rough red 
on, than the gentleman in brown. His bre
ce. In the fair city of this vision, the
dvocate is in a swoon?"
. He came in and first tossed me some pi
sing shadow.
with other obstacles than these. Every t
ight and day from the great towers of No
rom it, and this life together. Like the
heard something inaudible and invisible 
truck Two.
"Father," said Young Jerry, as they walk
akes. Let the Doctor play the winning ga
left alone, Mr. Lorry asked him in a whi
"What was he like?"
d looked at her unconscious mother.
nd the prisoner had engaged him. He had 
e this!"
 steps towards the latter precaution, by
gging, digging, digging, in the live red
"The patient was a woman of great beauty
people who were left there, and there wa
ong. As a promising way of setting them 
stern ways, and through much staining bl
 efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electroni
The deepened marks in the nose, and the 
rd, at the tips of their tongues; wherea
y was very hot, and heaps of flies, who 
an's mind. He once yearned so frightfull
, until he is composed. But he never say
ed chair cut down, which stool, young Je
ve torn him out of the breast of an army
ve been more afflicted if the Aristocrat
It is hoped he will recover in the fresh
dstone brought their faces up, were more
His hands released her as he uttered thi
st asleep. Dreaming, perhaps, of banquet
. Please to let me know."
guinea."
harles Darnay.
mmon attendance excited him greatly, and
raves."
n his hand, and his white hair overshado
 want to say to you. Will you hear me?"
er than the miller. All covered with dus
n's had nothing left for it but to empty
s posting-house gate, which the village 
rily, and to die by it, was not mere boa
gement of colours, the elegant variety a
ing.
There was something in its touch that ga
One of the most remarkable sufferers by 
owed his face upon it.
th drooping heads, are sunk in silent de
ions, fagged up a steep hill. A blush on
, accept Tellson's proposal to retire an
nts of a summer night. The postilions, w
ith their dread loads over the hushing s
"Really? Well; but don't cry," said the 
e habit of such travelling yourself, I t
 There was a special companionship in it
e opportunity of observation had not ext
"For instance--"
ever to break--the fourteenth Louis--was
son may inquire?"
, and Madame Defarge was drawing very ne
swollen and red. Haunted by her feverish
Charles Darnay--as was natural--asked hi
ut the rough red cap and tricoloured coc
ulogne. He loved his country, and couldn
adful sea rising.
 lead the bony cows out, to such pasture
nd out for a fowl, a rabbit, a vegetable
Out of the open country, in again among 
 could possibly save him, that he was vi
 fire, "then we must have patience and w
ter taking a timid peep at him lying on 
 my friend?" said Mr. Lorry, surprised.
"Yes, yes, yes, I'll be cautious," said 
fidence. As to the uncertain travelling,
ised her. "Courage, courage! So far all 
lthough it is a long time on the road, i
thout any apparent reason. While one ext
essly watchful of him as of everything e
 dark as, imagined by the light of this 
onfidential on a short notice, for anybo
"I suppose they'll be trying Forgeries t
on wall. The Vengeance and the Juryman, 
treets, now drew nearer and nearer to th
"What a night it has been! Almost a nigh
l at last the sun touched the tops of th
ith evident constraint. "Bring your chai
ort as a dwarf," returned Jacques Two.
im publicly relate in a striking manner.
ll Project Gutenberg-tm License when you
nning of the conference. A struggle was 
This being another question hard to answ
I am not fit to be pitted against you to
might have been already tinged with grey
its of indifference to every natural sub
d with that blank behind him, looking ro
-a whole province of France--all France 
 so, without looking at her, and said:
mers, drinking or not drinking, standing
les is very easy.  You may use this eBoo
on by the iron hand was down--down on th
hat do you do there?"
en, to these days when it is mostly wint
hut and he was not there, which was a re
essing."
ht have thought, expressly to lame all l
und broken, and the water flowed to the 
houlder, and said:
 of his manner, as he put the weapons as
ay for it."
ognises me; we do it, and we know it, wi
"Well?"
ce and skill in conducting ingenious exp
uckier or lighter-hearted, to frolicsome
 about his mouth and nose; Defarge stand
ation of compliance.  To SEND DONATIONS 
erary Archive Foundation is a non profit
iling search for your father, she left y
ed through the little window and sneezed
ers suspected one another and the guard,
aid the other. "Call wine, wine; and fin
hop here, close after you, and sat near 
ht eyes, "that had the makings in him of
nt, lying in the wilderness before him, 
owing which you do or cause to occur: (a
d of a ruler for a little while, and the
nter, they were gone; but they had been 
?"
ce.
thered tones, "you shall not draw it. I 
or we have something on our mind to-nigh
itted beside her. The short, rather plum
in the removal of its traces, almost fel
s right; as soon as that was done, he mu
n groped about, for a minute or more, be
 earned his own bread. Monsieur Gabelle 
 that it was she of all the world who mu
s that so."
spectral wings.
in dread of her husband too. When I hand
"Hooray, father! Here's an early job to 
 Past beyond his misery, and to a Presen
tice, for anybody on the road might be a
acques!" said the kneeling Number Three:
right hand raised, 'in the days when all
lumsily into the lock, and turned it as 
"You have seen both dolls and birds to-d
"Not much. If it should go ill with the 
that something might depend on his prese
 because I believe he cannot calculate t
is expression was upon him, he looked as
in its own way; of particular public bus
"_She_ pretty?"
the prisons, emissary of Republican comm
G LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DI
h evil, a happier end was not in nature 
d no time to lose, but must get ready at
"It is, that if Miss Manette should brin
 and doubts--hopes, of a love as yet unk
 and he knew himself to be invested thro
NITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU
s not go far towards the realisation of 
eper of a wine-shop in the Saint Antoine
 were all well filled, and the people po
"Did you ask me for my name?"
r?"
e courtyard and terrace staircase, had i
"Immediately after dark, I should hope. 
 I was not already full to bursting!"
n the brains of the doers. How could the
e example of luxurious and shining life,
mself, and there are no other means of g
hough an unchanged mind, when she was a 
"I am quite glad you are at home; for th
er strain and at high-fever heat. Every 
In the universal fear and distrust that 
 in at Tellson's; so I will go there at 
" repeated Mr. Cruncher. "They ain't wor
reast? A shadow indeed! No substance in 
 even in this Bastille; the gentleman's,
He took her hair into his hand again, an
isoners of both sexes and all ages had b
before; but the wretched father was grov
every tender means she could think of, w
ddle o' yourn, don't let me see your han
leepy as laudanum, my lines is strained 
Defarge glanced darkly at him for answer
im off the bench. It had more than once 
emies and insulters, was coming into Par
l was quiet.
highest importance that the time occupie
ike!" said Madame Defarge, frowning. "I 
 piercing shrieks would begin again, and
armagnole. Then, they elevated into the 
Sydney had been working double tides tha
oad? Is not this the same place twice ov
til you return, and then we will remove 
my being resorted to. She did not know t
und of Saint Antoine Quarter to the wine
nd cold. Next day, fifteen prisoners wer
Drawing his arm through his own, he took
ll take him where he is to go, and will 
d and breathed at, was not a sort that e
 damp headgear as no words can describe;
 died in a moment without pain. Could it
but, as he proceeded, as he showed that 
"I believe it," answered her father, mou
y by the chocolate sprites, and was seen
the charge of him, I know. He was delive
nconvenience. After bursting open a door
 notice a word! Miss Manette!"
gerie while I was contemplating the wall
ee if we are pursued! Hush! the posting-
 long time.
riend, and the quiet street-corner was t
ing in the pockets of the coat he carrie
ed that way, and listened for the retrea
toine, and we will give information agai
ooks.
d if you charge for the eBooks, unless y
"I would not say happily, my friend," re
"You heard me say why, a minute ago. Do 
 others of my countrymen, even with nobi
ve kind, but pondering and self-communin
t humble capacity.
at with piety and one blowed thing and a
"You don't hear much about them now?" sa
sted on her when it was finished. Miss P
earance and the story of the Bastille Ca
m--for what are husbands among us! He wa
ssurance to Mr. Jarvis Lorry.
r of blood. Shouldering one another to g
rge, turning her eyes again upon Lucie. 
ssed him with every protection. I must s
on to familiar conversation with the Def
arquis who was murdered," said one. "Hap
Waste forces within him, and a desert al
her bow.
art reclining with his hands in his wais
"He told me that he was travelling on bu
"I forgot it long ago."
h sudden impatience, "In the name of tha
ok the cry so ill, that he watched his o
a Noble, and the letter E.
according to its size. Some men kneeled 
ld come to the knowledge of the step, as
rove against, and conquered, for her dea
hich he could give no honest account. Th
destined to come to all of us, Miss Mane
ve our name to be more detested than any
 no more than the opportunity to do so w
him, and which he had paid for.
d then swelling and overflowing out into
e, the new-comer recoiled from this comp
 arrangements, more or less--he statione
s him, "do you expect, Mr. Darnay?"
e first, or might be the last: these and
n an auspicious and an evil hour detecti
"What is that?" she cried, all at once.
r o' life, miss," returned Mr. Cruncher,
cho of their united home, directed by he
righter genius (or perhaps the same) con
ad not gone far, when he was joined by a
e common dogs are proud too, sometimes. 
ach, and ran its head into the chalk cli
 guillotine then surely swallowed up. He
gle question?"
 influence through the tissue of all the
ch a great change would naturally awaken
r own masters. We have to think of the H
m, and that this man was Defarge.
"Twice, he put his hand to the wound in 
 Remember! I may denounce you if I think
eap of stones. He was fast asleep direct
"News from the other world!"
on, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-t
 evils with which the State was touched,
enesses, lie in a twinkling star. And as
d in your blessed restoration. I have kn
words, "I am the resurrection and the li
y lifeless on the ground.
u, Mr. Stryver?" asked Mr. Lorry, in his
alled to him across the way:
you. I see in your face that you know I 
 first encountered, close to the same sp
ight lines of the setting of the eyes, a
ir of one who was coming near home.
out a notion of affairs; brazen ecclesia
ital and prison, using his art equally a
st the tyrants of the earth, rose from a
. Mr. Cruncher beguiled the earlier watc
inous idea of replying, "Agicultooral ch
ion and by her aspect.
dreadfully spare and thin.
ate. My daughter Lucie is, in this one r
to night to prevent me from being the be
aid, and to your belief in it. I hope yo
they were not so decreed, he probably wo
and hurry had not changed. The Vengeance
; but, so armed, he was stronger than hi
rely such an incorrigible aggravation of
orious and proud before him; after grasp
he prisoner in coaches, inns, and packet
 and his daughter, in England."
n overshadowed by that cloud for years p
emy of France and freedom. That's an exc
 in a loft until the middle of the night
othing beautiful about her; years had no
it is always followed by a press of peop
d patriots will know what that means. Le
      Chapter II     The Mail      Chapt
il; but it is a sacred object, and if it
this, my sweet Lucie, that I brought you
 auditory, to show how the Defarges had 
cial to a man in your practice at the ba
re is worth a hundred thousand guineas t
o one could have looked at him twice, wi
d for.
e. Enough of me."
nd who would be left so desolate, and wh
There appearing to be no other door on t
 like a larger dog-kennel. Mr. Lorry, th
g; there can be nothing here. Take up th
 Marquis. "Hold the horses! Who threw th
en as the Republic."
 done with my work? Time presses: I must
 been, she said in great distress, to sh
to Mr. Lorry; "couldn't you tell her wha
 breast or where not; but, in vain, for 
ge long and rough, and I lay on a sofa, 
up a shout of applause. All the voices w
 the rest, it is my Refuge."
deck at his side to take care of him. Th
t outside Newgate had not obtained one i
quent, struck down the powerful, abolish
t, he might have been at a loss to claim
, and in some the occupation of the hand
Noon coming, and the Doctor not returnin
 not rest solely between you and me. Com
in his face, nor any openness of aspect 
brought in and tethered to anything that
r drawer, and two porters, and several m
grim, as if he had been up all night at 
t the blazing edifice with a new forest 
erent directions, and all was black agai
"Shall I go on, sir?"
e people drew one another back that they
heir mouths, who sat down on the bed.
ndation was created to provide a secure 
ey Carton struck in, in his moody way.
 social place, though by no means new to
about to follow. He remained on the step
Defarge drew out the key, closed the doo
-morrow. I can't sleep."
"I am the Resurrection and the Life, sai
 bosom, on the sacred altar of his count
ine, brought up and growed up to be a ma
hrough the night. He was on his way to d
fairs and state secrets, than the needs 
ls, much as it had stood on the fifth fl
ked about him in the old way. Finally, w
Buzzing from the blue-flies.
e of that degree. Saving for a mysteriou
e, extending her right hand, for emphasi
, bore few traces of anxiety. But, perha
e thank God for this on my knees as I ha
These, the people tore to pieces and sca
ur! He was not of this part of the count
se, set themselves with bleeding hands t
 pencil on a scrap of paper. Then, trave
"Miss Pross at home?"
There was another blank silence before h
e what, on the other hand, is involved i
itionally disconcerting yet, to have mad
ips from which the colour rushed to his 
en all day and lain awake and wept all n
but who at length struck into his road a
earless character, of shrewd sense and r
 a few inconveniences for the sake of Te
nd intervals of brightness, to sunshine 
oad; and the reek of the labouring horse
to quiet them. Which it did not, for the
om among the feet of the horses, and had
d what I ought to do. I decided, that da
She repeated in the same tone, sunk to a
g or providing access to a work with the
 horses and pace, all the mire-deep leag
 Mr. Lorry, "if it should go ill before 
olid walls, like crystallisation; stupef
the eye with blazing lights and to the e
ow? Take him yourself to the courtyard y
"You have no idea how such an apprehensi
nt cheerfulness and felicity with the di
ny conversation with the prisoner?"
serable beasts know the taste of wine, o
chambers."
but yesterday, Doctor Manette; let it at
lk."
 against you to-night. Is the teaboard s
im that she felt how much older and wise
 from the opinion he had been, in his an
 suddenly on Mr. Lorry and her father, w
e best and greatest of men in his native
nd the white-haired man afar off, was th
 her, "good day. The chamber, furnished 
"That must never be," croaked Jacques Th
be fair. To show you how mistaken you ar
 grass and blade of grain, was as shrive
 to speak.
the spy; "though it's not important."
"Then you shall likewise know why. I am 
se herself, "I have no doubt it is best 
r his amiable purpose. Father and son, e
 asleep. For, going to the door of the D
wheeled about and dropped into the furna
rious, and the preparations having been 
o realise. Let me carry through the rest
our ways as soon as possible, and let me
shall not leave here while I can hold yo
e heels.
his mind. It was a hard matter to preser
recommend him to sacrifice it. I only wa
hings; but, the mechanical work was a me
 the smokeless chimneys, and started up 
on that Bench and suffer those allusions
asped at his back, like a docile and att
 the grey water of both began to be ghos
f that chord could renew it. After what 
 home, father?"
usband was my sister's husband, that unb
 wound was a sword-thrust, received from
"
 in the towers of the churches, where no
d with this eBook or online at www.guten
The allusion served as a timely reminder
ual corner. It was a day of some wild re
en years ago.
th had been previously at all amiss, or 
ere fed and freed.
oss the road, with the mutinous intent o
 of his throat and choke him for half a 
r associating you with the misfortunes o
h to get you to it!--Joe!"
cal character, he looked, under those ci
 important."
imitation permitted by the applicable st
ners were shot in lines and squares unde
, Mr. Barsad paid for what he had drunk,
my tile-paved entry to the gloomy tile-p
"Charles."
ard for relays of post-horses, poor foun
fa on one side of the drinking-table, wh
't touch the blind!"
 old, against the man she really loved--
left unswallowed.
"Miss Manette, it _was_ I. And you will 
e night--and the words would not have pa
"Bravo!" said Defarge, clapping him on t
 father, and my brother!' the counting u
vice altogether. My credentials, entries
ull Tellson flavour and blue-mould upon 
s, and of half-imagined faces peeping fr
on his breast, a very different man from
e suddenly into his mind--"a prisoner?"
"'A brother.'
him by the table between them and the fi
again, and a loud noise of feet and voic
torted Mr. Cruncher, "to be the wife of 
h you are no stranger, for associating y
d time, Monsieur the Marquis leaned back
Carton! Can you, of all the people who l
said, touching him with her cold hand. "
ryman, "that he is brought down into our
 the night drew on, the Marquis looked, 
can think, or I can say. There is no hel
r?"
ucie? Hardly, I think? I doubt you must 
at it is."
support to provide volunteers with the a
t Antoine, he stopped at a shop-window w
ook there?"
ellson's had whitewashed the Cupid, but 
Mr. Stryver shouldered his way from the 
 fixedly?"
spersal for these restoratives, and she 
t was now, in a moment, on his speaking 
topic with you, out of curiosity, but ou
g. He watched her as she mused, and the 
She said it aloud, but added to herself,
n-grated windows, dogs pulled hard at th
ith his resolution made, he considered t
n of some few of the great diversity of 
hat my reason will not long remain unimp
Doctor knew, that up to that time, his i
ve known it in his heart of hearts if he
e's sixth birthday, that they began to h
Now, which of the multitude of faces tha
hed by her; and the whisper went about, 
he one good remembrance--and shall thank
rwent when you suspected my descent, and
 was addressed? The House laid the lette
 Chapter XXIV   Drawn to the Loadstone R
 time, was a partner of mine) has been d
lace at Mr. Lorry's usual desk, with Mon
panying my carriage, and not open that g
Monseigneur, as a class, had dissociated
d Defarge, bitterly. "Yes. And a beautif
nference was, that Gabelle again withdre
 under a bank, taking such shelter as he
 which was a relief to Lucie, and left h
e, rolled at him, like a sea, or a wind,
high in dust, and never stopped till he 
l detain you no longer."
g as we came along, and what I am still 
er."
 hands again, "in the resumption of some
tronger than his namesake, and blinder, 
ys to be heard of there by their needy b
g so intimate here," so he at length beg
w.
ore yourself--flung away, wasted, drunke
"Pardon, Monseigneur; he swung by the ch
on to be practised on his daughter, Miss
in the worst of the day, played gently w
e date since his return to France. There
ner of the carriage. He, too, is pointed
h the rising and falling of the blaze, t
 made.
 sentimental company, and throughout Def
oor street, with its poor brewery, poor 
ntatious parade of his liberality--"I'd 
parish like stray paupers without a sett
ly any purpose such as creation of deriv
 a word.
 If you could endure to have such a wort
f wine. Monsieur Defarge sold a very thi
idnight. In the meanwhile, Carton would 
him now, I hope, as he deserves."
et," said Mr. Lorry, patting her hand. "
three heads had been close together duri
he midst of them, the hangman, ever busy
noon, sir. Bed, sir?"
e, Mr. Carton, to have made you more unh
ner of that name himself appeared, from 
The Defarges, husband and wife, came lum
nes, to avenge you on Foulon! Husbands, 
done my best to prepare myself, and I na
ipe, filled it, lighted it with flint an
esire to know more about these matters, 
ing there staring at me? I am not so muc
wned and filled with water. When the gao
uickly at Carton to see if it were in hi
The night was so very sultry, that altho
ouring away up a bye-street, after shedd
nts in the Student-Quarter of Paris, pic
itness seven or eight years; that was me
tle more, all you can ever do for me is 
"It is so," assented Defarge, without be
utiful and good. Twenty-two friends of h
nd to what it must bear. His hold on lif
"You have my certificate in your hand wi
the trustfulness and attachment of the e
d frothed the chocolate with the little 
m poor creeturs now! Forbid it as we sho
 tending towards that point of the compa
 struggle for the lost wine. "It's not m
p yonder!" cried Saint Antoine, after gl
ckoning?" said Carton. On his answering 
im.
es me so much support, is this:--If the 
e personage, without taking any heed of 
you, citizeness," from the Doctor. "I sa
, and love it back to life and hope--so 
world if it were there. They drew back f
 London--"have you seen much of the Towe
as a monstrous joke. How it would be a w
sarcastic sparks from the whirling grind
"Yes, sir. Your honour told me to call y
o the young lady, "This is our man."
Madame Defarge slightly waved her hand, 
stead of conveying Greek and Latin throu
 steps."
to the man who played tricks with _that_
gh, fell to work at his shoemaking.
 and left the place. The eyes of Monsieu
e stars, turned pale and died, and for a
dying embers, as to get a cloak and hat 
"I was not praying against you; I was pr
lack brooding from his mind. She was the
f lion's jackal, than any real jackal ma
ed to find that his friend has drawn a p
he case of an old and a prolonged shock,
 proposed that the wine should be carrie
e, whose only crime was fidelity to hims
ples that visibly followed and oversprea
ver, shouldering the rejoinder at him; "
 by the populace; that four days and nig
im, and heard the night break its silenc
he wine-shop, still at his gun, which ha
"Quick!"
closing, on his station at Tellson's. Wh
characterised for me by any gentleman br
he grimness, of her appearance; but, she
rom it, and that we go to England to be 
n any case degenerate successor--of the 
cessor--of the polished Marquis who was 
companied with an intent look at his pat
sir, is safe from me in this country. Th
ion in question (one of a large number, 
ness was the chink of money, and more dr
"A bad look, you say, my dear Darnay? Ye
is hand gratefully; their hands were joi
s was the noise of the living ocean, in 
ng up and down, in his room. Ladybird ha
s there alone, and will be shared by no 
ndkerchief under her arm in a serene man
ung and smooth it was), of rifting and k
 there.
ain! Try again!"
droom, and a barber."
 other rats; and he leaned back in his s
hatever else she did or neglected, above
reature, and I have made up my mind to p
s complacent friend; drank his punch and
"--In as good stead to-morrow as to-day.
"To be registered, as doomed to destruct
that although but one kind of man was se
 had looked out into the vacant darkness
of rust off his fingers in his following
 you, and that perhaps will make you thi
"See you then, Jacques," said Madame Def
at reminder of his sufferings about him!
against an angle of a wall, he made a st
of his fingers, "my hazard is not _that_
sand gossamer gnats circling about them 
d, or the certainty; but, beyond this, h
ts owner stepped apart into a spot reser
 of the time which had followed on one a
 with other eyes, looked at Monsieur the
ct for regret or grief.'" As he said the
"Arrested for all that. When was it done
yself. She will have in me a man already
 Your money came out of, or went into, w
 wife, came lumbering under the starligh
Perhaps. Perhaps, see the great crowd of
They had said little, though they had be
"You have a husband, madame?"
oine here."
ags of meat; the baker, the coarsest of 
n's, almost as a matter of course. For s
lour was to be seen in his face. But, in
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for t
led the man. "I meet no dinner anywhere.
age was to make no change in their place
ce, "There is."
III. A Disappointment
I am busy. I am an official."
s."
wife. As one who pretended to do nothing
, that circumstance too, had had its inf
I have a reason--a good one."
ust now, I up and said in the good cause
ame into court with the prisoners, and s
w his way to the verdict. Argued with th
hat old man says, all this was actually 
hings to this. Strange that Creation, de
his turban off and threw it into the bas
ad, is he?"
always received in confidence.' I was gu
ionable closeness of attention; and when
 was mistrustful of having made a mistak
ing; for, many men had listened and whis
ly up at him; "I knew that this prisoner
blance between him and Lucie was very st
g after him; and, pictured as hopping on
inting him out. "See Defarge!" She stood
hed in a wink, and she not here! See her
She was pale and trembling. He came to h
 it is better she should not see us toge
" Sometimes it was staring and bewildere
 vulgar in a barbarous manner. But, few 
ighways, dank with the marshy moisture o
tronic works that could be freely shared
ch a man as I here; it is a sound precau
"You are a little late, Memory," said St
, you know, for who can say that Paris i
the women.
de a place of concealment for it. Some p
Her father considered a little before he
 no chance for my life but in rust and r
press it--the mind. The mind. It is the 
 the House afar off.
, a whisper on one happy slave and a wav
e, her child. English. This is she?"
for there will probably be a greater con
"Then what on earth is your meaning, Mr.
nly animated, she put her foot upon his 
the miserable bakers' shops were beset b
love as yet unknown to her: doubts, of h
o taken up his bundle and bidden himself
your escort knows Mr. Barsad, I will inv
rrowful story of a haunting Spirit ever 
This dialogue had been held in so very l
-appointed Tribunal sitting, before whic
e, do as Rome does. Rome will be a ugly 
e-shop, though the eyes of every man the
agitation. The hearts of the passengers 
. Some half-dozen other particular frien
vement to congratulate an adventurous tr
 loosely about his face. He cannot easil
ht the skirt of her dress. He raised the
ays are at an end for me! Don't be alarm
"O! most unhappily, I am!"
rror, like that which one may fancy stri
nally, a stray workman putting his coat 
ome year and a half, that I hope the top
"'I am a doctor, my poor fellow,' said I
He asked the question with some appearan
er he had any spectre on his conscience.
t was a hot, wild night, and they were a
er will have been too much for him?"
ief as such companionship was in every s
nd they were not wholly of earth, but ha
"
 it in his hand. All this he did, method
"Woman imbecile and pig-like!" said Mada
 with this world.
hter's hand and clasped his head again.
keep it from the gaoler."
elastic swing with them.
utes, to come and keep his appointment. 
ed her a little, and hurried her into th
 of which, a hospital procession of negr
, and read.
to come to it. In a little while he came
retty witness?"
e first, reluctantly, "he has been denou
tunate gentleman, the Doctor of Beauvais
ing log, when it had broken under the we
"No, my dear, not ill. There are large d
ority in France that might impeach him f
nds upon and cannot survive without wide
 for the jaws and the digestive apparatu
ul anguish to him!"
ess, Miss Manette. She will do very well
 if you could, it would be unsafe for yo
foot nervously on the ground.
ldest of men made your cheque shake as i
n do with most Project Gutenberg-tm elec
ission of their deed and in the removal 
"Well! I--Were you going there now?" ask
om his struggle against the waterspout o
 and the guard, they all suspected every
t," repeated Carton, in the same mechani
he work.  You can easily comply with the
ms upon which I have the honour and happ
yer, erst a mender of roads. The sawyer 
dame, looking at him with a smile.
streets, came nearer and nearer.
ut of the way, like an excellent man."
 grown to be a part, like strong root-iv
ns and signals to prisoners. It is easy 
 looked in.
a starved grocer, and the mother of two 
nce. Besides that, his loss of himself g
f the river on the bank of which the mad
s, and were trying them all; he examined
 If the Republic demands sacrifices from
though it's not important--No, it's not 
tion to him: but as no help came from th
im, turned to them.
s, in the realisation of this fancy, and
r quest for herbs to eat and fragments o
h. He had a white beard, raggedly cut, b
writing up his joke, he called to him ac
d and dirt, were types of the disjointed
e all the spectators moved more or less,
 a reproachful look, but Carton's hand w
ade this rattle, the passenger started, 
lways seen by the public in the act of b
ng room. He paced up and down for a long
o me, and tell me there is nothing angry
un. It was an inconsistent and ubiquitou
ence; a second, milled and frothed the c
you hear in my voice any resemblance to 
ice.
d with his story as if they had seen the
le ready for laying by, and smoothing he
slipped or wrought itself, he groped wit
 divers means and ways, assisted Lewis, 
 arm, and looked out with him into the c
of daylight, and found that the shadows 
ks ill, Mr. Darnay has had a terrible da
 was put to Death; the purloiner of fort
ally engaged at the same place. After it
g the people out of all the working of t
ded to his destination in a cage, he cou
s head in his bullying way, "I'll have t
e object of such sympathy and compassion
et out of his hat-brim, which might be c
ety. But, perhaps the confidential bache
uthority possible, sir," said Sydney, "a
minster. Even the Cock-lane ghost had be
oned before it, and had been set at libe
 told that a lady waited, who wished to 
it may not come, during our lives."
soldiers, but not one of them knew what 
d esteem it highly if I might be permitt
 its capacity of helping such a look was
"I am."
pocket-book in his hand.
"Miss Manette, have you seen the prisone
ief discourse, and it had been as much a
d growing down hill almost to his broad,
's reiterated instructions. The same cau
out of his way than for ornament. As an 
led human life is--at its coming and its
one Rock
usly.
e Juryman, the Judge, long ranks of the 
it correctly."
no mistake about it."
nveying away of the said Gabelle (double
ur present confidence."
"Clearly plots," said Jacques Three. "Tr
"Sir," said the nephew, "we have done wr
ood! You have acted and recounted faithf
d: all the fingers convulsively clutchin
perhaps accidentally, perhaps not) upon 
y of little more than twenty, and a gent
d back; at last it got to Jerry:
f this disorder, and she called it, in f
 the middle of the street--when it ran a
 roughly hustled and maltreated. The tra
r hair, and screaming, Foulon alive! Fou
 have at length done all that I can do h
edge, and experience, could put me on th
en I left the village, Monday evening as
n the usual way, and came to breakfast.
n it was, "I don't know her. I don't und
ceived the notice yet, but I know that h
 bloated Mr. Stryver with indignation, w
Darnay sat beside her; Carton leaned aga
the King!"
ook a culminating pinch of snuff, and pu
e to the prisoner (which his momentary e
"French. You don't know him," said the s
t authorities insisted on its being rece
 of people pretty soon!"
 barrier and the frontier! You see?"
e mender of roads. Whom Defarge escorted
at pair of shoes to-day?"
ornered spittoon, and over a great muffl
ndition. Some registers were lying open 
 in an angle of the wall, one prisoner, 
u!"
patients, and how can you rightly have o
 restore him to you?"
nk, and reveal to Mr. Lorry the brightne
verborne with anxiety of late, and his t
"I think I am quite sure of it."
led up before the windows, to deaden the
 the prisoner could see, he and Mr. Lorr
to consider, and the great flies swarmed
ay, rather hesitating, "I must still sug
 and congratulations, when Madame Defarg
 prison, pointed at the prison, and putt
ess and animosity, but to strike into ot
had completely isolated him.
"I give the promise," said the Doctor, "
ierce hours.
te of her heart."
Madame Defarge, with a wave of her hand 
ue earthly end, were no less abundant. D
gh your dreadful trial and in your bless
had been taken from him at the Barrier, 
ent on a few yards in advance, to plant 
n accents and with eyes that had as much
"I had never before seen the sense of be
ets and sabres, who rode one on either s
Of all these cries, and ten thousand inc
ey differed principally in the passions 
1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Arc
kfast roused him, and he said to the dra
, and broken. Habitations, fences, domes
"You have had your bottle, I perceive, S
aking it French by pronunciation. But, h
m out on the staircase with a candle, to
't say, sir?" the spy irresolutely asked
"Not exactly so. I mean to tell you, Mr.
d mind no other object."
occasional, thing; otherwise, she remain
seat: in either case detained to be impr
p, with his hand to his head. His manner
in no other."
general.
bout, until they rested upon an elderly 
ke some great engine forcing itself thro
in a front row, by the side of a man who
er and himself in their exile; that, so 
ur was the father of his tenants--serfs-
n. At this, he laughed again, and they b
 gloom upon me is so dreadful.
"_I_ began it, Miss Pross?"
een guillotined and forgotten. The list 
as occasioned by an external circumstanc
eets, and not one within sight.
nd I can swear my way through stone wall
ve of her hand towards the place where t
the door, and pulled up the window. "He 
walking up and down, in his old prison. 
sinister face; but, stood with an air of
one, "some mental shock--?"
d with the lamp in his hand, as if be wo
Mr. Cruncher knuckled his forehead, as S
opriate cane with a golden apple on the 
1.E.  Unless you have removed all refere
with large square cuffs and large flaps 
ved him from all other men. He was not s
 agree to and accept all the terms of th
 minutely in it.
rim curiosity and surprise. The led cows
t a nurse."
t again.
er--that no vestige of colour was to be 
No crowd was about the door; no people w
g made a mistake in his late demonstrati
 and grew broader and brighter. Soon, fr
observed a change in it.
went out at the prisoners' door, she tur
ntlemen and French families, were entire
ghtly ornamented head to pretend that sh
among them. They advanced, retreated, st
d ruin!"
te his horrible idea of hoisting up men 
istling. "I can't undertake to find thir
 him through the night; a correspondingl
row ploughed among the populace is turni
n, to think about growing old."
a Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work o
d and eighty. (Mr. Cruncher himself alwa
, "I wish we might be friends."
s Darnay was soon recruiting his strengt
unhandsomely dealt with, and that I ough
She resumed her knitting and went out. T
 the coat, which lay almost entangling h
in a serene manner, and observing that i
"Here.
ther three who had rushed into another s
e to-day, in less than two pipes! Less t
And now, the jury turned to consider, an
nity to do so without delay. Is not that
a marine ostrich. The beach was a desert
pearing even to whisper to them in his w
ning is everything you could desire. But
m to-night."
d on the scene that appeared more natura
s took charge of the lower regions, and 
hough they had.
t it madly were two men, whose faces, as
ness that you sometimes need to see your
 light of a lantern that was held, and e
 he uttered this cry, and went up to his
e heavy mist of the heavy streets, with 
maternal function so affectingly and del
 want to say a word to _you_ about _your
-And the first danger passed!"
 exclaim, "Down, Evremonde!" the face of
an kill as well as the men when the plac
en they rode up to it.
given any utterance to his, and they wer
 advised to lay himself down on the pall
, the delicate foot mincing in this slou
man--which I hope I do not--whose taste 
y that the king was in prison, and that 
Had he ever been a spy himself? No, he s
low door, put a key in a clashing lock, 
w a sudden doubt in them, and then aston
o the houses. Across the streets, at wid
shamefully mangled, was the sight; the i
"There is no time to lose. I am well pre
his own right name. The address, turned 
uddenly fan away to dust. The passenger 
onde," said the Spy, in a warning voice.
f one Roger Cly.
"I will, Mr. Carton."
Charles Evremonde, called Darnay. Releas
a loud murmur and a rapid tide of people
h that his heart was to warm and soften 
"Come, come, Mr. Barsad!" exclaimed Sydn
 places and pursuits.
was. He did it with some flourish of cer
ees, and poured its radiance over the hi
 you off."
rhaps. Then, they moved away on their ha
"I opened some of the bottles, smelt the
 shining Bull's Eye of their Court, a gl
 a goin' on dreadful round him, in the w
He formed this speech with his lips many
 it, made out with huge satisfaction, an
"I am obliged to them for their interest
 daughter?"
y studious at the task of the morning, o
To be confronted with such pity, and suc
s look, that, for the first moment, the 
. And a beautiful world we live in, when
prise, yesterday evening; we agreed that
ss of walls and arches, the storm within
fancy, or a dream, Mr. Lorry saw him shr
you be you true to me!
down together, there was no glow left wh
ng! When are you likely to have seen the
ss to him; many a dreary daybreak reveal
r; beyond that, I knew nothing. Her indu
r the close of the tenth year of my capt
 father from the wind and weather, bette
iven away with the air of a gentleman wh
f those closer streets again, and dined 
afterwards, and to the end of her life r
ading his tired horse, turned and rode a
 through which they peeped. The father h
 found himself next to.
akfast, and not much of anything else. M
ng a whole summer night on the brink of 
that in the retributive arrangements mad
perhaps the effort to prepare himself ma
starved grocer, and the drum was at rest
"And now speak to your father, dearest. 
her eyes would be dimmed. For, there was
 a moment. Had he come on board alone?"
After some delay and demur, the door gru
ible to those unacquainted with his stor
 was so violent, that I had not unfasten
dame Defarge which she felt to be a new 
 breath tells them. Let it deceive them,
atriot will be happy to make them. The R
nt out with him from the warm atmosphere
much more he would eat if he had it--in 
e sword that he stained with my common b
e for solving them.
ow advanced one step.
oung lady straightway to her chair again
 dear, will you bless me as fervently to
such a thing can be."
fest, too, that it originated in an unwi
l twist itself into the same tortured fo
 attention.
scraps of leather were at his feet and o
ou tell her what you had to tell her, wi
ghostly manner in the dead of the night,
ere she had stood hundreds of times. A l
solved! But, the friendly dawn appearing
Language: English
e.
y not take place until after to-morrow; 
e town, and thundered at the cliffs, and
 very beautiful."
scatter them all to the winds.
er, "are the papers of this prisoner?"
gle moment released the other's eyes. Ma
breast, and could be expected to feel th
ts belonged to the routine of life, and 
o see the soldiers and their prisoner pa
as disturbed in mind.
g and bewildered, and then it was, "I do
ite sure that it was the prisoner?"
n the pavement.
nded to as the brighter clothes of happy
"A compliment," said the Marquis, "to th
 dark dresses, akin to mourning dresses,
black to my sight--except on the side of
 and the whole wild night is in pursuit 
 him. Nobody will suspect Jerry of being
n silence. They both entered after me--t
 who had an eye on the transmutation of 
hion. Peasant women kept the unfashionab
te King, Louis Fifteen. But how do I kno
leave the city, should leave it at three
lon! Husbands, and brothers, and young m
oked at the village in the hollow, at th
e, or they might not have been so fortun
business relations, miss; there is no fr
at no embarrassment can arise from our m
of this electronic work, without promine
ther passed out of the Tribunal's patrio
they need, are critical to reaching Proj
 he shaved the sixty-three to-day, in le
t deceive them, then, a little longer; i
ng, long dreaded and long vaguely forese
red his liquor in with his right; as soo
 whose preservation Monseigneur made edi
"Of it? What?"
 I may read this?"
 and, with their heads low down and thei
 the Evil One, no sooner beheld him in h
y seated himself on the stool, entered o
ents of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 o
at moment awake, reverting to a subject 
ic spy of the same antecedents as yourse
 of so many good minds, arose before him
s moved so fast, and decree followed dec
by rendered practicable, Mr. Lorry resol
known it yet, he would have known it in 
et, after shedding his cloak, hat, long 
f wine for consolation, drank it all in 
touched him on the breast, as though his
and have heard whispers from old voices 
 by the side of that infernal dog's who 
orld beyond this life, you could hardly 
"As _you_ say," madame retorted, correct
, and Monseigneur might have been warmer
g forward and very busy, making shoes.
s to his, and folded her in his arms. If
althy things, the more it would be in da
eemed a faint expression of curiosity or
rsad was not a Sheep of the Prisons."
s appointment. Her father had not been s
nces served, and on that possibility she
Whether it had been born alive, or the p
tone, all their wicked atmosphere seemed
 an insensate brutality and ferocity wor
ummer day, and he knew Lucie to be out w
sh to see her. Do you hear?"
rs. That, he (Mr. Attorney-General) was 
orror of her situation, Miss Pross passe
py your female mind with calculations wh
erhaps looking into their blaze for the 
them himself, for instance? No. Expect t
 to the younger, who said haughtily, 'Th
I know--he does."
 patriotism was _his_ only motive too. H
ation to you, yes."
eper inclination and of contracted dimen
, they were shown into a little room, wh
nk twice about harming of me, even if it
imself to assert it. Then, that glorious
dge before her, as if the axe had droppe
r and came running back frightened, cryi
 and compassion, Mr. Darnay?"
patriotic occupation of the main buildin
 coach going out of Paris drives up to b
Defarge got upon the box, and gave the w
 of relenting rest, no measurement of ti
ld be gleaned from any passing vehicle t
The people immediately behind Madame Def
ou, and for giving me your advice; you k
he last spell of work was feeble and fit
The happiness of his own chosen English 
gone on before, to prepare her, and when
arkly defined eyebrows over her toothpic
r-spears, swords, and knives of the chas
itary patches of road on the way between
"Are we not going too slowly? Can they n
loor, and lay there in a lethargy, worn 
; but I do not know how that can be, Cit
passed with Miss Pross, the Doctor, and 
eavy fear was upon her.
 be regarded as an useless (and I would 
learness of his answers, made a great im
arquis in a luxurious age and country. T
a menagerie. Towards nine o'clock he smo
sing his voice, "I grieve to inform the 
gain, "I will not--not even at Tellson's
 much too horizontal and thin; still, in
d her for a kiss.
Probably, Monsieur Gabelle passed a long
d not but appear now.
1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registere
ting the suggestion to have 'em out, and
ll."
d they caught him shrieking; then, the r
"Yes."
cing it to its source, he discovered it 
p recovered its habitual aspect.
e Barrier!" The postilion cracked his wh
directed life, the remembrance that I op
o his work, and he once more bent over t
 could rush at him, that after his long 
hen the horses were unyoked; beyond, a q
"You are happy, my dear father?"
h his finger dipped in muddy wine-lees--
d at Defarge, some long obliterated mark
er hands drawn through his arm, as she s
ewed it up, and tossed it to him. Openin
he prisoner, Defarge never taking his fr
he had done what he had done, even altho
 in great extra danger, and I had better
"It will be much the same to your knowle
was Sydney Carton. They had not been at 
 roads fanned himself with his blue cap:
 moved his chair to it:
y be many more, for all that he can say,
ghost of elegance, the ghost of pride, t
must tear the sheets to ribbons. At whic
 with a smile and a sigh together, "such
a word of one syllable, and I'll either 
and that I must prepare myself to find t
"Is she not?"
But, the glorious sun, rising, seemed to
"I have the honour of giving you welcome
sing in as surely, when the church bells
the high is the involuntary homage of th
ging, and handsome, but not marked for l
nd an unscrupulous, and a ready, and a b
urself, Mr. Carton?"
at I lost the little hope I had had of h
 him! "Listen, everywhere!" said madame 
 the breakfast-hour in his usual white l
"I'll tell the prisoner so. It won't do 
s now the news-Exchange, and was filled 
"I am."
In his expostulation he dropped his clea
un found hanging across once-peaceful st
st. He had not previously uttered a word
 to me in slighting terms."
again aforesaid, Charles Darnay, stood t
 small quantities and at various small s
if nothing were further from his thought
g there, went out, and the prisoner was 
f Jeffries downward, and which can be tr
an ready and willing to cut his throat o
XII. Darkness
nwenient for explainin'. What I stand to
wn the Strand; and his bear, who was bla
e saw it, and made the most of it.
ad been taken on Tuesday; now, burning p
ault to find with Doctor Manette, except
ose were down, the rest linked hand in h
you understand that that was not the chi
worse than useless, was in constant requ
 were so unprosperous as to awaken a str
, whether they be ever read by men or no
was helpful in restoring me to myself, I
 ordinary course without due occasion."
nd he instantly changes for the worse. B
 felt at her encircled waist. "It is und
"Twenty years back, yes; at this time of
ine as it was possible to be, the expres
ate difficulty. On his house-top, he dis
ces, almost felt, and almost looked, lik
the papers before him, sitting not far f
and Jerry had beheld the coach start, ha
Deep ditches, double drawbridge, massive
ght!"
 His linen, though not of a fineness in 
aked Jacques Three, dubiously shaking hi
Along the Paris streets, the death-carts
ubject of the morning. He even showed su
That he had his reasons for this, he kne
I had heard and seen.
thority. I am sure it does no good. Come
streets, at wide intervals, one clumsy l
omes manifest in all such places that ar
ne another, before bending forward with 
 out the chain under the carriage. That 
women; one, knitting.
laiming to Mrs. Stryver, over his full-b
ibility of turning at bay. Depressed and
the world, I love her. You have loved yo
 two conductors struck the man who opene
in his shirt) took this very ill, and, t
long these walls, that I may see them," 
 use of his time, that in another moment
f the crowd, like a kind of lightning, n
 in any other light than as a monstrous 
ciation. But, he had been so careful to 
cate, enabling him and his daughter and 
tion, riding with him and keeping him in
an article, and, if it happened not to b
 joke with immense significance, as is o
Her"--he never mentioned Lucie's name--"
 days of complete rest. In aid of the ki
es looking silently at one another, with
al muskets in a most explosive state of 
 because I am a Frenchman born, that the
s with the wildest cries and actions. Vi
ung gentleman and young lady so thrown t
father's breast, tried to speak to him, 
 that the sparrows in the plane-tree beh
 drawn through a forest of legs; he was 
with the wail of voices that he knew, in
the whole, sublime. That, he had been th
urtyards, terraces, fountains, green ban
ness to examine some specimens of the wr
 On hearing footsteps close at hand, the
scovered there, and which had been descr
nt his being carried to his home on men'
"I am so distracted with fear and hope f
and Latin through the Custom-house. The 
. Also, I see that their long shadows ar
Mr. Lorry had just finished his dinner, 
n streets of this city of Paris; and not
tion to me then? How does this happen?"
aved. No better man living to hold fast 
our_ line of business! Recalled--! Bust 
, looking out of bed for a boot. "You're
esome confinement he was in danger of fa
As was natural, the head-quarters and gr
quences of what she did, in time to chec
g, and were read out by the gaolers of t
."
 this, very strongly, with the hope of r
 might) cause us real inconvenience. All
. Mr. Lorry, the passenger, shaking hims
for other accused persons who were to be
o more!"
 and the fulness thereof are mine, saith
 hopeless by her having no sense of pity
ty-five, did business occasion you to tr
is how to live. That is the subject _we_
ved and eternal lights; some, so remote 
to be caught." Some of his King's Bench 
The wine-shop was a corner shop, better 
he was a free traveller and French citiz
he play at the Old Bailey, just as they 
he concealment of her large earrings. He
"Yes."
ral and particular, Monseigneur had the 
n, turned them back, or sent them on, or
Within a few minutes, Miss Pross stood w
against it bowing behind the two counter
by your equipment.
rtion of the place, fagots for firing, a
is nose: "I would ride over any of you v
t the Barrier, but which he did not doub
hoe," he muttered, without looking up. "
ought, what if the key were already take
side of him which was not the side on wh
d knows; but I don't ask it. My petition
you were probably walking in this direct
t this prisoner, of whom I speak, had be
ances!" said the spy. "I have known Doct
me man, not past the prime of life.
Mr. Lorry's countenance fell.
 to go to bed.
e disliked me deeply, for knowing what I
 as far from it as she could, and ran do
Although the Doctor's daughter had known
."
t of meat, as of most other sauce to wre
se with her, and kept her hand drawn thr
young lady as a golden-haired doll. The 
d Jerry, "whether they drink your health
ul. We are more afraid of you than of th
irs with a bump on every stair, scramble
were made for the swallowing up of Londo
wise. That, the evidence of these two wi
k from the inscrutability of Carton,--wh
 the high road, still a long way from Pa
as quite a serious matter with Mr. Lorry
my friend, I entreat you, and leave me."
Mr. Lorry and Monsieur Defarge had made 
"Do you know me?"
ed themselves to be the three of one nam
 was a sham, is a wonder of wonders to m
e bawling and hissing round a dingy hear
me, to mourn for, or sympathise with, a 
yself, and I got it with much difficulty
 know you have nothing in unison, and be
 was really there, he laid down his work
r and of amused voices--voices of men, w
retaliative temperament), to pitch himse
n Jarvis Lorry saw the kindled eyes, the
 imagine any such violent sounding of th
ur mind to-night."
noxious family of Aristocrats, and would
ness there! Your manners have been of th
 and envy, was the general desire.
ette; let it at least be tried. These ju
t you can do with this work.  Copyright 
an aristocrat, and must have an escort--
 stretched out before him, looking at th
, just as they paid to see the play in B
e road and coming. I tell thee it never 
on the cessation of the rumbling and lab
 Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided 
Seeing in this arrangement the hope of r
. Depressed and slinking though they wer
ers had opened to admit us, and had relo
mender of roads bathed himself, so much 
They looked at one another, as he used h
ry afternoon were beginning to fall, and
94 [EBook #98] Posting Date: November 28
"That's quartering," said Jerry. "Barbar
in a certain place that I can show you. 
ike all the forty Furies at once, was te
hat you did that day within the Bastille
ne. "It's not my affair," said he, with 
hing she possessed, as a stake to specul
sked myself the question."
S BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
arrived from London, and would be happy 
"Thank you," said the Marquis--very swee
and wandering thoughts suggested.
one.
ects without heads, dear me, plentiful e
 works on different terms than are set f
e of that prisoner was Damiens, and it w
It was known directly, to the furthest c
eces--die--come to I know not what harm-
harboured in my thoughts, and hidden in 
use the permission. It is a hundred to o
r coat, counted out the money for them, 
 as though he squeezed them against the 
e thousand seven hundred and ninety-two 
ed at one another's heads, spun round al
wo groups of faces--each seven in number
 by that time, seeing that it had been t
ore the principal door. A stony business
 he were dead, yet shall he live: and wh
"As to thee," pursued madame, implacably
t perfectly still in his grasp, and only
at with doors and windows open, they wer
 and long habit alone could have slowly 
till your heels is where your head is, i
ave done?" said Stryver; "how do I do wh
warming within a yard or two of it, boas
ous admission that she would have been u
tions concerning the copyright status of
, supporting the boy, and thinking that 
IV. The Preparation
pportunity of opening his mind to Doctor
e sight and scent of flowers in the City
 tone, after some moments. "I do not dou
 go to Soho in the evening, and come to 
 friend is dead, my neighbour is dead, m
ertained, through the registers on the t
"_I_ don't know," said the man. "Spies! 
"Stranger things than that will happen w
n might have been expected in him when t
ere is Manette?"
han before.
 the next room, he turned suddenly on Mr
face her, than Miss Pross uttered a scre
"Hallo, Joe."
or those things descends to me!' Ask him
rvals clear enough to allow the French c
Don't be so terrified, my love. I solemn
ow, and all the tides and winds were set
 in due season.
ertain famous occasion when I was more d
ng of Gaspard (ah, poor Gaspard! It was 
s to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm co
elling under an assumed name. He said th
 to his trade or when he didn't. A honou
t she might be prevented from meditating
The stillness consequent on the cessatio
calamity, and the whirling wheels of the
She held him closer round the neck, and 
"What purpose?" the spy asked.
 need of occupation. That may be, in par
 Who can gossip of an evening, under tha
heard her say, "I swear to you, like Evr
nd they looked charming when Samson held
ery numerous and very loud, though, are 
ned, and the trials of the whole occupie
 out upon a lonely road. Another fisherm
s how to answer; finally, answered not a
 beat them to pieces in a few blows.
 you must, at no additional cost, fee or
, within the sense and spirit of the law
sses for the moment. Five were to be tri
 a blank."
His head and throat were bare, and, as h
eve, or hope. You think that her father,
h had no right to live. To appeal to her
Mr. Lorry leaned his arm upon the door-p
ison to that house, was apparent to them
hfully; "and see you, too, my little Ven
o lay the spectral face upon her warm yo
 and she took him in her arms, and went 
 away. It carried me into great and unex
-down on the sole of the shoe of Madame 
hey sow chance seeds? Whether or no, the
t, in his carriage in the street, sittin
pposite another wigged gentleman with hi
. Not that it did the least good in the 
wind.
ody there, neither flinched from the sit
id Mr. Lorry, shaking his head; for he g
nd though the coach (in a confused way, 
eing always assigned to a passenger by t
, to save a citizen's life, and to bear 
y suppressed; nor foreheads knitted into
ked what it was.
out on some household matters, but will 
and and touched him as he stooped over h
e he saw the prisoner with these lists? 
her father and Mr. Darnay, Lucie Manette
Here, an excited woman screeched from th
 Defarge, standing before her with his h
yes looking around, and his lips trembli
anette to be, for the moment, in some ad
o a space some ten or twelve yards squar
erations. To learn more about the Projec
e remodelling the world with words, and 
I wait for her in the better land where 
rt to its possessor firmness and animosi
go up to Soho and offer myself--_my_self
resemblance to a voice that once was swe
o the yard, the escort rode in close upo
sly sensible that such vermin were not t
nown."
--and was surprised to find his reading-
Nobody had made any acknowledgment of Mr
e to her, "nothing. O, my good man, ther
"Why, it's on the tip of your tongue. It
e of your child herself, you would have 
Mr. Lorry was so taken aback, that he lo
 objects akin in their nature to the abo
ied the time away so fiercely, that Char
he counter close together, speaking low.
ve exchanged. You go out at the gate by 
tir enough, and carried their divine rig
re.
radesman, succeed in providing a jinte o
"say no more about it; thank you again f
hern wintry sun. Still, the Doctor walke
ees the prison gate open in the darkness
 well for his sake--and above all, for h
ere many weeks old. Above all, one hideo
mposed he has become, and you cannot be 
hirst for it. Judiciously show a dog his
e Channel, such a baby! Lord bless me! H
at he must accompany him. The prisoner o
"I have been detained by"--the nephew st
 by a real corresponding and sufficient 
 a flush of pride in it.
 public diversion, are a number of women
nd risings of sea--the firm earth shaken
t child."
ther, they originated in a strange beset
sion of monks which passed within his vi
 supervised it, and that he had meant to
e had for supper and how much more he wo
ay between them and the capital.
and errors, ended in the words, "I am th
t itself, or one of its rooms or passage
e who shook for Tellson and Co.
id French Lewis what forces our said ser
s a spectre, tall as a spectre!"
ent out. Madame Defarge set wine before 
pertinence elsewhere, but it is not so h
e rendered no greater homage to the effi
Give me my work."
, nothing audible in it--suddenly the se
he manner of a sleeper that moment awake
"To none. No, Miss Manette, to none. If 
.
lk stockinged, would see the very stars 
eing "the House," you were put into a sp
as very busy.
here, and I was always nowhere."
med to destruction," returned Defarge.
n his mouth, walked up and down, complac
e; but I am so far mended as to feel tha
 over these.
edical adviser--a distinguished surgeon-
ot there in course of time; insisted on 
 away, and perhaps the Guards came, and 
smoke. Through the fire and through the 
in indescribable intensity of face: not 
 HERETOFORE THE MARQUIS.
m, has that Doctor?" murmured Madame Def
saying to him with a frown, "Witness at 
 of them being handed into the coach by 
business? Is it honouring your husband t
she said, pointing to him in tears, 'I w
ped; carriages were often known to drive
oth lay quiet, until a light gleamed thr
 opening proceedings with a grave intere
ross; "and that was my brother Solomon, 
"A fancy, then, my wise pet," said Mr. L
he high wall and the strong gate, there 
"Wo-ho!" said the coachman. "So, then! O
"Miss Manette, then!"
ces in a horrible crime.
eally was looking over a hand at cards: 
ten. Let me follow in her steps."
wo hundred and fifty particular friends,
hat the relapse you have described, my d
"A solitary old bachelor," answered Mr. 
, no more was done.
the work, you must comply either with th
 at any time, to pass the barrier and th
 paper to the prisoner that he must acco
urprised as a man could be, to find hims
ly as he had left them, lest he should c
as it began the descent. The guard soon 
 only contradicted his light manner, but
o a mouse--and silently and composedly l
er again produce her knitted registers, 
en? What did he call himself?
c benefactors, this shining citizen woul
And I could not respect your sorrow more
ring, but never interfering; in which co
 for loosening the general tongue. It el
re him, with her appealing hands upon hi
teness; "I would not be sure of that. A 
Then, issuing from the obscure corner fr
de of a man whom he had never seen since
 lead and direction, and required them a
"And advancing?"
xford-road, and forest-trees flourished,
ed in the marble basin of the fountain; 
ere is so much endurance, fill with tear
examine it.'
 examined the stock, went through the en
 cards. So the guard of the Dover mail t
n?"
ry the brightness of the Soho horizon. S
s, to sunshine on his face and shadow, t
 the ancient clerk, turning his surprise
trong internal agitation when he was que
k we had best not speak to him just now,
Down, and up, and head foremost on the s
ing his old Sunday morning conversation 
 help that sister. I could tell her noth
ide the coach would fall into the train 
 United States and you are located in th
nd in his mouth there is a gag--tied so,
sband had been there. Everything had its
"I did so, raising the boy's head agains
 and are like the shadows of giants. Als
e name of that citizen. The accused expl
h to do to keep this wine-shop open, wit
 it. There were few buildings then, nort
t sweet messages to her, straight from h
s hand upon her shoulder, "I _have_ save
e discovery."
 that seldom seemed to look at anything,
d which bound her husband, and her fathe
 and come away!"
and the brawling crowd, so that his tear
ad in red nightcaps, and put on heavy sh
 am the sworn servant of both, against y
"One Hundred and Five, North Tower."
e building; now, on his knees; now, on h
"Tell monsieur what kind of shoe it is, 
tion. Miss Pross's fidelity of belief in
 cap without which he was nothing, still
on, that I ever should have committed my
ed by prisoners--dates, names, complaint
pe there is for my Ladybird. I'll not le
the young lady; and when I speak of caus
is world on whom I could so rely for rig
em through the evening, as he had once d
"My friend, I told you so," said the unc
he might have cried to the night--and th
at it was not reassuring.
"And, O my dearest Love!" she urged, cli
nger. He had never heard a sound so swee
 returned immediately, with two men.
e red cap. Lying hidden in her bosom, wa
hen before the President.
nns, and packets? No. Sure he saw the pr
to awaken any serious fears in his breas
be carried over into the next; no man co
y more than if he had indeed been recall
"No!" returned the spy. "I throw up. I c
The key was put in the lock, and turned.
"Or you to me," says Sydney Carton. "Kee
 madame by which he was constantly haunt
llow dominoes; of the one bare-breasted,
nd were in the air. Perfectly calm and s
er, extinguished the light, and went out
s that hung against the wall, and survey
 especially commercial redistribution.
ate Trials of this country were full. Bu
darted out before the horses, with the p
that when we chanced to have a bit of me
Doctor Manette did not return until the 
would die away for good when they seemed
only seen by stooping low and looking up
on and the spy returned from the dark ro
"If that will be a consolation to you, y
 withheld--to alarm Lucie into saying, a
k the rose out of the handkerchief that 
. While they despise your breath, and wo
's bench and tools were put aside again,
"Shall you bring any fish home, father?"
l as out of wide division; in the former
erce figures were steadily wending East,
n. I wish to tell you what that is, and 
ese reasons, the jury, being a loyal jur
 if I may speak my mind. I am not fit to
 exclaimed Sydney. "Don't be ungrateful.
oo. When I handed her down to the door, 
Happily unconscious of the new calamity 
Mr. Cruncher's eyes seemed to get a litt
 brisk fire. He had a good leg, and was 
isfaction.
Mr. Lorry paused, and shook his head at 
g journey, uncertain means of travelling
at unknown periods, either in the lower 
n so violent a tremble: "pray control yo
e all use of and all access to other cop
" said the wood-sawyer, "though you wear
rs turned their heads, and a few shook t
his strange being took up a candle, went
ed, like a clock, for so many years, and
-that, mingled with the affection and du
uments, and that he who could not fail t
o human creature; I have won myself a te
 tavern to dine well at."
handful of straw that could be gleaned f
The prosperous patronage with which he s
e Channel, and accepted service in Franc
 to a tone that invited confidence, and 
, "I am a mere man of business, and unfi
 nothing, doing no service, idly burning
was stained with the stain of the old ra
himself. What do I know? It is possible.
ed, the carriage of the Marquis slowly a
ld, he had acted imperfectly. He knew ve
r it's there."
nd water, had no footways, but broke off
e pride of Beggars, like that tutor-fell
rs. Her life was active, cheerful, usefu
hing the two streams, like the heathen r
ings wanted," said Miss Pross, "and we s
Carton's negligent recklessness of manne
slavery, my friend," observed the Marqui
he had known nothing of her father's imp
ion of Mr. Barsad to the nearest Section
"Now, Mr. Cruncher," said Miss Pross, wh
easts and vehicles of various sorts, was
 spoilt and sickly vapours seemed to cra
is; this is what I ask. The condition on
 question, and were almost building up s
"My brave wife," returned Defarge, stand
 is contamination in such a scoundrel. T
arge, the shoemaker looked up. He showed
starved fingers and toes, or in those of
and agreed for the time to tamper with h
o wore their usual clothes, and had not 
d occupations as their bare poverty yiel
vember should come with its fogs atmosph
 sat her down just within the door, and 
is," laughed Stryver with a vexed laugh,
an of great acquirements--a Doctor."
 through the entries in the book, made o
ing brightly, and they were ready outsid
row?"
 he, in a tone not rising much above a w
the village had taken its poor supper, i
n old one, too," made his bow, informed 
"Well!" said that good-natured emissary,
"We are thoughtful to-night!" said Darna
 "I may not repay him by doing him harm 
 his suffering, he was proud of his stre
ttended at the hotel of Monseigneur that
ay came and went, the fourth, the fifth.
moothness down hill, making paper money 
nn-yard, from which pale travellers set 
. Some of the hacked swords were tied to
r. When the gaoler was gone, he thought 
o."
n of increasing the number of public dom
ot come back. Mr. Lorry returned, and fo
ad, and then laid the bright golden hair
mped life of it. But, easy and strong cu
"Why does he make that abominable noise?
d, no; but he would ask the witness to t
 Not ill. Sixty-three to-day. We shall m
 more unhappy and self-reproachful now t
eturn for your good offices."
ersal throat again. "And dead?"
nder and a faltering voice.
 his station to play that Ace of which h
"He answered with great contempt, 'No.'
s his eyes rested on a short, slight, pr
Never did the sun go down with a brighte
"Yes; I believe so."
ing it, with such suppressed approval as
in; and that Mr. Attorney-General was ma
at is it?"
seed. He whiffed the compound of scents 
 her desk, counted the small moneys that
e unsafe for you to make a sign of recog
n it may be less so."
d Madame Defarge; "I cannot speak of one
"Hem! Well," returned Mr. Cruncher, goin
or the shoe that had been taken from him
o be you. I can scarcely believe it now.
the morning blast, as if the desert-sand
ce, and his head was demanded.
e registered?"
th a little crane over it for the hoisti
, fast, fierce, and furious!"
istractions, oppressions, and miseries; 
ile the bloom of the Long Vacation's inf
hat _he_ don't get no law-work to do. Do
me, and anticipating plunder or confisca
 to his left, dropped into a comfortable
vigorous freedom, instead of languishing
as a fringed scarf for a dress of ceremo
business relations with me many years ag
 coming and its going.
but now, on his way to the Hotel de Vill
The chateau awoke later, as became its q
n in my hand." He glanced at the shoe wi
own lips. I have overheard words of that
er in the fresher air. It is represented
ach was hidden under almost as many wrap
ted it. It hushed the eloquent, struck d
papers."
ed to the echoes in the corner, with hea
 was done, two fine dints were pointed o
er's boy of sixpence.
. I am well prepared, but there are prec
o. Respectin' any present use o' this he
nks they are still together; he asks him
"I salute you, citizens.--And the first 
licacy
neur. He is dead."
his own industry in England, rather than
, that had not been seen in him before; 
 her with his head a little bent, and hi
s Pross with her; but, it never occurred
 up to look for him, and who quietly nod
 on the counter to save their souls. The
"Monseigneur, he precipitated himself ov
e was but one quite steady figure, and t
g when she had said those words, and pre
nes in the cruel face, looked ominous as
r descendants, to the last of their race
the opportunity of her being from home, 
ears."
"He knows nothing," said Defarge; "at le
 dozen, and now burning pamphlets at the
y makes me shudder to-night, when all is
to be fit for." As Young Jerry, thus enc
"Brave and generous friend, will you let
l never forget it!"
 or more ago. You have a face to be reme
Thank God for us, thank God!"
without noticing the exclamation, and wi
t says," observed the timid functionary.
e in the middle of the forehead, gradual
pty.
ing anew, shaking off sloth and sensuali
nce from him in the Hall.
e passenger, looking at the sun. "Gracio
ir. "It is necessary to register him. Ho
t of the face made, it was a handsome fa
they were greatly alike, in stature, man
 left her!
my descent, and when you knew it. We kno
"and any of them would only add to her t
ed for. "True," said he, "and fearful to
cuse me, as very much your elder, for sa
st revengeful passions of the time, and 
f that better kind that there was any op
 alarm, or merely of a bright fixed atte
mploring him to do no hurt to Solomon, t
ange speech with animated gesticulation,
nd at first, as they approach, I see no 
 which he always sank when he had spoken
have set myself. It is so cold, so dark,
ave your horses ready, so that they may 
a system that is frightful to me, respon
y saw a rush in the eyes of the crowd, w
ur extinguisher-topped towers. A small l
morrow. I shall see him to-morrow, you r
 susceptibility in every muscle of his w
 the people happily dispersed, and Monsi
"Monsieur Manette, do you remember nothi
 work of the day is achieved and it asse
that the Guards were coming. Before this
g her in conversation that she might be 
ary rising and stiffening of all the ris
rance."
e Paris fountain.
rpness, had been gradually restored to h
vention--it might almost have been worth
drinking; the hands moved for the jaws a
"Now your dinner is done," Carton presen
XXI    Echoing Footsteps      Chapter XX
s hard enough to kill him, but it's wery
t up late, and wrote two fervent letters
lf to reflect that dust he was and to du
y, and you see with your own eyes that h
ender tried to get a peep at secret weap
ry furrow of age and coming up afresh, w
 in which the Doctor was accustomed to c
Carton's hand moved back to his breast n
de of faces that showed themselves befor
in, but on the whole decidedly trimming 
d a good many nights in succession, maki
tte!"
were ruled for figures too, and everythi
ubby arms, and he kept his place with he
; but, he told her father that he expres
 Such a scanty portion of light was admi
 enchanted, in the wise Arabian stories,
conclusion that it would be as well to g
Houses in twos and threes pass by us, so
t in his power, cautiously persistent in
 warning voice.
 the existence of the paper, or had had 
1.A.  By reading or using any part of th
of Ladybird," said Miss Pross; "and that
nay!" The polite rejection of the three 
time there was none. Hold of it was lost
. All here, yourself excepted, saw the K
When her husband was brought in, she tur
better of it. He walked up and down, sof
The pen dropped from Darnay's fingers on
ew to his chamber there!--And burn Monsi
Her father's only answer was to draw his
XIV. The Honest Tradesman
tter."
 desk, with Monseigneur swarming within 
living sea rose, wave on wave, depth on 
for it was midnight), and where Madame D
quiet on the coverlet. She put her needl
 reason of his having, on divers occasio
 intelligible finger-post to the Future,
trument that was to terminate his life. 
hat could have been holden.
ay. I see her and her husband, their cou
arefully, and spoke in a subdued voice:
runcher, turning to his offspring, "it's
heese, until he had the full Tellson fla
ith these details, and I see them all, i
ce of the ocean bearing him on, that eve
All these things, and a thousand like th
ew that he had crossed the Channel, and 
ued Mr. Cruncher, "even if it wos so, wh
and had this effect (I assume), I had sa
eak for us all?" He asked her the questi
d the ashes with his foot. Not a word wa
could detail, every word that was ever s
lucrative practice, behind his compeers 
t as he had last seen them.
ased. He motioned with the hand he had e
 table, and covered his eyes with his ha
"Jerry," said Mr. Cruncher, apostrophisi
 stone faces awakened, stared out of fir
 I shall never be better than I am. I sh
They passed through the intervening stre
d moved in praying for him.
or the French gentlemen to be landed in 
urrounding the coach, deriding him, maki
nto the room in advance of the inn serva
Another blank.
 have been seized, with great violence a
ion of my pattern. Enough! Now, my dear 
t the hope of rendering real service in 
"
at his ears; for another instant, even h
readiness to sacrifice it.
r to destruction, I send you, Monsieur h
 a brother nothing has ever turned my lo
t had been associated in the minds of hi
after missing his mark--"what are you up
was to her, every day shared the fate fr
He devoted himself during the remainder 
te, as he made his formal bow again, and
offal, among its refuse, of anything to 
Mindful of the secret, Darnay with great
into it, as if they had made it all.
d developed her into a tigress. She was 
re, but the unsteady fingers of one of h
voice, as if she were saying it in a dre
"Mr. Darnay," said Carton, "I wish we mi
"They say, those boastful English, that 
 and unfruitful year was prematurely col
rust at me with all his skill for his li
.
d as exactly as if her husband had been 
drels upon earth since accursed Judas--w
"
"I show him, in the way you have seen, t
 ceased, a buzz arose in the court as if
d multitudes of people turning up after 
of the crowd, which another instant woul
ther crimes as tyrants and oppressors, I
 the days of my life, I never saw him."
, with him, at the--" He dropped his voi
ooked at the pen and saw it was trailing
yther rusty; don't it, father?"
ain so! But, if thou wear this form thro
ege of coming in uninvited, and would si
She was pretty enough to have been marri
 with nothing. Already, the mender of ro
ind, had been hurried and incomplete. He
f state, instead of being in the open ni
 blind frenzy, whirled about, striking a
bout them but the straight hair of their
ellow, if I had had any luck."
rch morning, with young Jerry standing b
 her, lingering somewhere; and yet, alth
Nothing more was said, and the mender of
"From London?"
y conversation with the prisoner on that
 were very decently kept. Early as it wa
 Death; the holder of a horse at Tellson
Towards Soho, therefore, Mr. Stryver sho
ig, dig--now with a spade, now with a gr
ven home into the heart of the stone fig
and, my father, and my brother!' and wou
 glanced about me, and saw that the hay 
they_ knew they were), must positively f
tom-house. The rest of his time he passe
eds got into extemporised strong-rooms m
d oppressors, I have this race a long ti
 forward that all the eyes might look do
nted drudge, sir. I care for no man on e
ece of good fortune for her, but she is 
"_What's_ the matter?"
g, and in restless motion; but, these we
through the dust, and down the weary mil
d in these days, the carriage dashed thr
"To the first, then. He is of a studious
and tramping through them, as they had r
d to relieve her breathing; and in movin
"Commence," was Monsieur Defarge's not u
 been at it from morning to night to pre
 you'll never find a fellow like this fe
 the ghost of age, all waiting their dis
 so great that she could hardly speak, o
 again alone in his room of the previous
se, in his resentful suspicions of his u
he easterly parish church of Hounsditch,
uch--like, the loudly echoing footsteps 
s strength and power. For the first time
oken hearts,--such, and such--like, the 
 it? In your own heart, do you feel quit
to the burial-ground; finally, accomplis
distribution.
 and slight, and she believed them over.
, "it does not all depend on one old man
er head. Yet, there was an air about him
 years ago. He married--an English lady-
 giant. These, however, were only the ex
nce more!"--Mr. Cruncher could not be re
ht be medical doctors at the present hou
ifully sheltered?"
hind him, and Monsieur the Marquis cross
rappers, bread and meat, wine, and hot c
 state's laws.
und--tied to his sides--like this!"
horses, and had laid it on the basement 
ded the staircase of the new domicile, w
n her own breast, long, long ago. He was
s it fell. The tall man called out again
y and strong custom, unhappily so much e
 compromised by possessing the knowledge
in the Bastille, citizen."
ief of that company, pointing to the vil
iliff.
rry; there was even to be no bridesmaid 
What, indeed, with his hand putting asid
tryver, "you take it more easily than I 
ith unsteady hands) was clutched and dra
over him, as incomprehensible to those u
ceiling of the court.
repeated the words after Miss Pross, lik
Pray, Doctor Manette," said Mr. Darnay, 
il me. One was taken from me, with a war
 far as to say would, but might) cause u
r fate. They were in number as the weeks
r's pockets, over and over again. He had
"Don't fear me. I will be true to the de
ragged peasants emerged from the crowd t
ony, at whatever personal hazard, to the
eared off (as to this world) the trouble
en released and delivered to him. This s
 of trees in a winter wind: all the fing
ith him--an instinctive delicacy of pity
 environed that house, and for the sense
said Mr. Lorry.
ve to Lucie, and to little Lucie," said 
e requirements are not uniform and it ta
Two other passengers, besides the one, w
A long imprisonment."
"How is the young lady?"
common tools and various scraps of leath
 the like of which was once a rarity in 
nd passengers by the mail being always h
glancing round the luxurious room.
 wows wot it is my wishes fur to record 
sperity. You've got a dutiful mother, yo
e whether of their own wills they will g
 be done, and hurrying away to do it.
"My glance had fallen, but a few moments
when the paper is read through, and the 
have transferred the question to him: bu
. I mark this cross of blood upon you, a
it was a becoming robe enough, in a cert
otine?"
g! Whereas them medical doctors' wives d
The invalidity or unenforceability of an
no harm is done. Young women have commit
ing for me here."
sible by some light of its own, as thoug
"I," said madame, "am equally engaged at
a livelihood. Some of us have damp ways,
ryver remarked upon the peculiarity as i
r. Lorry, with cheerful confidence, "you
t and mystery to every other. A solemn c
 But you are lost, Monsieur Charles, I s
of it."
arles Darnay was at a loss how to answer
c of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, or D
e tongue," said Solomon, "and come out, 
, fences, domesticated animals, men, wom
 no rent at all, that Gabelle had got in
 "Let it do so."
d she did.
eague or two of distance that remained b
e done, retreated among his wood, and hi
our hand towards that highest shelving r
 practices which claimed the forfeit of 
d while they waited with stomachs faint 
hope to reason with him, or try to resto
of, you were always somewhere, and I was
ficers were looking at the fire; removed
d at the prison on the crag. When he had
rfaces made him look very pale, with his
 the little Christmas vacation between i
 it had been when he had seen the shoema
in general, I say nothing against it. Bu
s.
ck saddling of horses and riding away?
ustomer in the shop but Jacques Three, o
 purchase crumbled, and it now turned an
"Hey?" cried the blatant Stryver. "Did h
dy, turned himself about here, and, care
, the mender of roads having got his too
is more hopeful of himself than he has e
ure of Our Saviour on it; it was a poor 
 especially the bright virtue known as p
sprung to their feet.
air, took a key out of his pocket, opene
r his business? Is it obeying your husba
"You, Lucie? It is out of the Consolatio
tial as ever.
go, if they are rapid."
 with something of Miss Pross's own perc
It was now Young Jerry's turn to approac
the anniversary of this day. I see her a
I know that each was not more honoured a
"Young Jerry," said Mr. Cruncher, turnin
"I was returning from France a few days 
hapter XV     The Footsteps Die Out For 
vainly hope in time to read it all. No m
n.
f the scene than he appeared to take in;
 family has sustained its grandeur. Hah!
ricoloured letters were the favourite), 
But, he went his way, and was soon swall
 attention.
Gutenberg License included with this eBo
ture, and I tell you that you'll never f
r move, or live: "what do you think of o
relapse into their former places and pur
evere, I am so fearful of being detected
emen abreast of that cart, frequently po
He turned himself sideways to the carria
s, have not been greatly considered? We 
"No, dear Doctor Manette. Like you, a vo
and deep love, Doctor Manette!" he said 
pillow, and kept her secret, as the boy 
nd don't move your pretty head from his 
 worldly goods and position to this butc
ho had emerged into the winter light fro
ld have done what he has done for me."
. The hands of the man who sawed the woo
?"
He stuck the paper on a file, in an ill-
aths of dust were spinning round and rou
tock was murderous. The crippling stones
med to make his way quietly, the messeng
ore when there are so many people there 
nial air of retirement on it. There were
 be done to-night, Memory," said Mr. Str
r itself looked on like the ghost of a m
right holder found at the beginning of t
 seen hundreds pass away so.
o and distribute this work in any binary
 rashness sooner, whether he would be so
ned itself as she took her seat thoughtf
rough its grimy windows. When he got out
d: for the two others had been set down 
 over him in a few seconds. He had no go
 and down the next; now in spirits and n
children--resounded in the street while 
the dark highway, to repair home togethe
"them poor things well out o' this, neve
Jacques!" said the man with the restless
gent indifference; the peasant's, all tr
e I can, and when I leave her, God will 
little earth that the learned tell us it
o his wife, on entering. "If, as a hones
 For Ever
t of every day, and the society of La Fo
 minutes past two. She had no time to lo
ay, Mr. Lorry walked towards Soho, early
Carton followed the lines and words of h
easy, with the face of his beloved wife 
There was much commiseration for her as 
sion looking as if it were carved or bra
quarters. That's the sentence."
him alive, hiding in the country, and ha
"Do you make a show of Monsieur Manette?
's ledgers, to turn cooks and carpenters
upon the prisoner. How say you? Are they
 to be always in singular need of occupa
paper; Hunger was repeated in every frag
 have ever loved you truly, and ever sha
 to keep his hat cocked over his eyes. H
Monsieur Defarge, in a stern voice, to M
e court was all bestrewn with herbs and 
signified to my Lord, that he deemed it 
arks well off the straw, and get a light
e not painful. The only spark of encoura
him home. "I will always remember it, de
anette.
"Almost eighteen years."
ink so. I believe you."
 said Mr. Lorry.
saw. Such vapouring, combined with the e
 may be a quarter of an hour later."
it shall cease out of its present use. I
n be done, it has been attempted, and ha
The horses there; are they right?"
ening.
that he could only look on, at a distanc
old servant and a good one, whose only c
unding of the living sea; but, still the
ary Archive Foundation, how to help prod
which had already made Charles Darnay re
I know that in loving you she sees and l
inated by somebody vindicating a differe
argument, that some brute animals are en
in with a fluttering heart, closed the w
 However, if you provide access to or di
od, and for his guard, and towards the l
earing to notice him at all, though he e
s true. The two opposing kinds of pride 
t?"
oke with a dreadful emphasis.
d steadily have all these arrangements m
 dark upon himself, for all that, and in
breaker on Saturday who had been taken o
ialogue. Presently, the dock became the 
 of his heart.
r even had his two hands at his ears; fo
e the wood-sawyer was at work, and not b
."
 manner hideous to behold, sat down at t
ce and dangling figure, the red stain on
ople, and having abandoned something to 
and South, through the woods, four heavy
id the stones that clatter us and shake 
"My English brother Solomon," mourned Mi
"Well, my sweet," said Miss Pross, noddi
t year, diversified by the blackened rem
sing a sigh as she glanced at her darlin
rnoon, Mr. Lorry sat at his desk, and Ch
o reason at all! Says it with his head o
many years, and then set going again wit
nt everywhere. Hunger was pushed out of 
as in his usual morning dress, and his f
of anything to eat. Hunger was the inscr
ate, and had found him in the arms of a 
some mental debating of the point, he ca
 money, or of any other property; but--"
d them as to perceive that she was set a
ration?"
 were, all, grim illustrations of Want. 
, and is in Tellson's confidence. As to 
"But never by me, Citizen Defarge."
ly altered the disordered arrangement of
rought me to my grave. When I was clear 
miss, in turning an immense pecuniary Ma
earful look, and after a while his lips 
 cravat, and his coat-collar, and his wi
ttached to Tellson's establishment was p
re every day."
, That, and The Other, all had something
 these Nobles to harness us common dogs 
ecret brooding to any one, when it is on
Evremonde will be despatched in a wink, 
ubbed his beard a little, and at length 
l scarcity of everything, occasioned can
 blind, and that you have had an unlawfu
ve used if they had been watching by a s
"Her breathing was so difficult to trace
er heat. Every living creature there hel
aved from the flames by timely aid! Help
 you in no way, I will undertake to corr
upants were appointed; before their bloo
our native country, Doctor Manette?"
as like a fine mask, opened a conversati
en will never be read, but he had writte
y shaking a forefinger at him, "that you
ittle citizen, not to be outdone, declar
te what I shall dictate. Quick, friend, 
"I do."
Receiving no answer, he tore his hair, a
Very orderly and methodical he looked, w
st the head-board of the bed.
 like muffled drums, but with the wail o
while his lips began to form some words,
dly found at his forge again. Is it not 
leave him with me now. Why should you be
all I have some free communication with 
ht, with no return of her father and no 
oemaker by trade. I-I learnt it here. I 
t. Don't you see she will fall!"
 guardhouse, and the usual lanterns came
rning and grieving. She will be in a sta
. Something had gone wrong with him; at 
ly than ever; and often when he had thro
ugh to admit of his being heard, and rap
ation on him, for it was not to be expec
"'Do you doubt them?' asked the younger 
rture from the Bank.
go up, all over the city, "Bring him out
Scarcely noticing as yet, in what a curi
n with the emigrant!"
--a common dog, but sword in hand.--Wher
red to take in; for now, when Miss Manet
ur."
ng on the step, the women bending over i
, with a cool, bold smile:
 at the questioner, before the face had 
 closed the door, locked it on the insid
to this other gentleman, so much your ju
"All sorts of people who are not in the 
erry saw, was the form of his honoured p
of Saint Antoine, fast spreading as they
lt it with perfect correctness.
XXII. The Sea Still Rises
 the side on which she stood. He had tak
wouldst rescue this man even now."
nd them, and those again explaining to o
shoe you are working at. Take it, monsie
 and those of her dear husband's, need n
was a large double one, there appeared t
th the poor shoemaker's white locks in t
d tobaccoey smotherings in the form of e
hom you see here, who, at the hazard of 
ief; by turns she clasped her veinous an
ctor?"
ppy service.
d on the table, as a light broke clearly
"Dull?" Miss Pross inquired, with placid
 race?" inquired the first.
king himself into a fit state for the im
"Mr. Barsad," he went on, in the tone of
ous, for she shied at every shadow on th
n it. I hope you may be able to think so
 be taken, that could not be taken until
rument like a great corkscrew. Whatever 
ery posting-house and ale-house could pr
, the tumbrils roll along.
 the sake of her child and her father, p
u," here he addressed his wife once more
d and fellow-Sheep, who spoke of himself
an unusually thin wine that he sold at t
bring you to sorrow and repentance, blig
ion for her as she was removed, and much
prison is he in?"
y said, still looking steadfastly in his
 our child."
France by every highway and byway, and t
it is among the Rights of these Nobles t
and had sat there looking down at the pl
 tell you, I regret it on account of oth
"Oh, botheration!" returned Sydney, with
ng upon earth, to enjoy that new delight
nking!"
d all dropped off. The spy had kept his 
"Genuine truth, Mr. Darnay, trust me! I 
 Project Gutenberg-tm License terms from
usual poor appointments. It had its poor
 her usual composure, "will take him whe
of no account, and was demented with a p
g hands upon his breast.
 easy enough, egress, even for the homel
"judiciously show a cat milk, if you wis
ad nestled down with him, that his head 
golden hair; as if he pictured to himsel
moured to be seen at broad day, going ho
faltered here and failed him. While he w
ost of every house, the name of every in
 search of her husband. He found her chi
her forehead. So close was her hold upon
on my shoulder, that night when I was su
riumphant perfection of inconvenience. A
 its miserable inhabitants."
ts on the side of the cart, and holds hi
 at what time, sir?"
 the spot--had then caught up their weap
t prevented my following his remains, bu
 sunlight, on the threshold of the door 
t instantly be obedient, still, and quie
; and they glided from seat to seat, and
e stream--saving that Jerry had no expec
 she was more than a match for any forei
ve of her fine figure, and her superb mo
y in its state apartments.
. Yet, no one had followed them, and no 
consequences would be to numbers of peop
time monotonously rocking itself to and 
ed coffee-houses, and theatre-doors, to 
n order that their noble sleep may not b
inspire confidence; he changed the leg o
ing away among the trees. All else was s
band, their course done, lying side by s
r to do anything? Oh dear no. Swear that
ret had been long undisturbed, and his h
ssue of all their lives, and making it p
ed from the situation, nor assumed any t
ood girl. She was betrothed to a good yo
her, as the waves of an unwholesome sea 
o extend it, by taking to themselves the
n airy steeple over France, should be me
"You say truly, Mr. Carton; I think they
g at him, he became embarrassed, evaded 
ook at me."
son present in that condition. Please to
rm another, laboured and strove in the t
in action; also, for extensive transacti
oes handsomely. I love it. Hi forward. W
he latter so received it, and remained s
ced by the light within him.
 In France--who, knowing me to have been
ss of home-spun stuff and hairy skins of
ine was attached to his bridle, the end 
us at Tellson's are getting old, and we 
ver their limbs and bodies; men in all s
oo, sometimes. They plunder us, outrage 
eigneur. He had been some few leagues be
n at the      address specified in Secti
, as if they were at sea. Indeed they we
oon recalled, and, I have reason to thin
"I was only saying my prayers."
 amidst the general approbation of his h
t was not difficult for one who knew the
"No. But I'll swear it was a name of two
 in their English home. The slight devic
ver her, and over all the other rats; an
r. Cruncher, let us think!"
ours before, to picture to himself on wh
e was illuminating. The mender of roads,
 been proposed to me, but I will have no
rge.
been in the exercise of his other recove
and ten, if he had never known it yet, h
e cut to pieces. One prisoner there was,
sleep, that night.
he streets. Change these back again to w
he horse in a foam stood at Monsieur Gab
d, and search the straw. Hold the light 
 in, unprotected; and as your escort kno
aidenly bosom bared to this, the pretty 
le, and who spoke with an ashy and solem
 stunned the Doctor's daughter into awai
 wantonly thrown away or wasted,' and th
So far as it was possible to comprehend 
sh, and fire, and rain, until after the 
per of the wine-shop. "You mistake me fo
 to write, describing his having been ca
 by the service of Four fierce hours.
 her."
"Why need you tell me what I have not as
nt into an adjoining room, and came back
o the escort, drunk and sober, a receipt
ery much obliged to you for allowing me 
"There is nothing to apprehend. I belong
 a lightly-snowing afternoon she arrived
, Doctor Manette, of being so intimate h
s a handsome face, and a remarkable one.
n. Let our good friend here, assist you 
the heart of a person who was beyond fea
 most exemplary state of exhaustion, at 
shing."
 fellow to object and advise!" exclaimed
 the men, the men!"
kes, and whose young eyes stood close by
is aid, his brother took her away; in sp
staggering to that gorgeous vehicle, cli
was in a very damaged condition, as he n
His streaming white hair, his remarkable
ve seen the dear boy lying in his--"
t of ancestral wisdom, systematically le
s can describe; which were made the more
room; not free from unshaped fears, befo
rrounded by so foul a neighbourhood, was
 him into an obscure corner among the cr
 Hand at Cards      Chapter IX     The G
ceremonies; but, the river being alarmin
ose unrelenting character he had seen ma
me?" said the trembling Spy, as he pause
ng his glass over his shoulder against t
what with the stream of sparks struck ou
hout Charles, having seen him; and repli
 the courier.
ominant as of yore; there were soldiers 
"That's a coincidence, too," the guard m
this work (or any other work associated 
stances?"
sed, but I suppose she was."
d. Lovely girls; bright women, brown-hai
structions.
pressive it was, of a hopeless and lost 
They put him into a great chair they had
of the tumbril with his head bent down, 
 by a suspicion in the minds of the audi
for Mr. Cruncher; he always pricked up h
bled companions in misfortune," said a g
ench intelligence, a kind of High Exchan
nd lay aside his wig, and giving no very
rge once more.
derstand you, Mr. Lorry, I'll be hanged!
credit, avoid all naming of the matter. 
dear Darnay? Yes, but we don't know what
 you are well!"
re crisis?"
org/license).
e mud and wet, howling over it like a wi
d."
th himself, as well as with the barriste
s an old fellow, who has carried Miss Ma
ere Thames river has of a pile, and simi
"My patient died, two hours before midni
were not confirmed in me."
nd to live?"
tradesman's manner of receiving the look
 love, or by your little children, were 
r face expressed such deep anxiety, and,
rain falls, impartially, on the dusty, r
its branched out in the solid walls, lik
a paper, mingled with the ashes of a sma
who, tempted by shillings and half-crown
f it in its place. First," he put his ha
ow, good bye!"
Miss Pross got a basin of cold water and
"it's you I have got a old grudge again,
 followed his father to the grave. His m
age to the efficacy of an honest prayer 
sts of your husband and child, would you
"To return to poor Darnay," said Carton.
, sir," said the spy.
 explained to him, and he had written to
etermined not to perceive that his being
h that in the rough outhouses of some ti
umber One of that name sternly interpose
ere she had trodden on the body to stead
finish. Hurry, hurry!"
in your hand? A crowbar? Give it me!"
ay, and designed, one might have thought
y were full. But, there my Lord interpos
Mr. Cruncher reposed under a patchwork c
 went up to his white hair, which they t
compression of the lips in sleep, inspir
and such awful work!
e we to divide them among us?"
 make no guess at the state of her heart
less dear namesake, pretending that he w
offer to you, sir, would be this. Upon t
ompliments to her in passing. I wish to 
 on the desk.
r that misery, until the paper had been 
e; but, it was diversified by many objec
not see us together to-night. Go! God bl
 to place and from group to group: a Mis
he fountain, sat there watching the runn
ving--with great unwillingness, he is th
on. He had never been suspected of steal
he little village under the mill; or cap
 ashes of a small leathern case or bag. 
at home; for these hurries and forebodin
iastically, "No!" and the President rang
ere, in truth, not a sound business; con
 who, like herself, is French by birth. 
livered to him last night. Suspected and
im, there was another current of impress
ed the younger brother.
he days when what we call the World was 
 to the fountain, where some women were 
onets, until the sky began to clear over
y marked by the Woodman, Fate, to come d
wictions respectin' the futur' keepin' o
; in other words, the present Marquis. B
lready said.
 me, Mr. Lorry. You deliberately advise 
e seated in a corner. Other company were
tel at Dover, and had since improved.
re vicious, with the experience that the
others in its appearance and degree, and
is was so well known to the public, and 
nd chaste fashion set by Monseigneur, to
on is a mincing Fool?"
identified me with a single gesture. The
e to write it down, watched its effect u
 it in chains of straw, a tangle of shag
"Never you trouble your head about this 
himself. He was not improved in habits, 
are accepted in a number of other ways i
erefore, all the Old Bailey doors were w
they did at eventide, when the streets w
t he had drunk, and took his leave: taki
hers laid in prison and kept from them, 
 the measurement again, and paced faster
nding and lying about. The light in the 
he time, all the usual harmless ways of 
"Pray forgive me, Miss Manette. I break 
again. I trust, and I almost believe, th
 table shone, with plenty of wine upon i
 of a few days. And yet his misgivings w
and in the dark window. It was a hot, wi
er they would hardly have thought the tw
inutes brought them to Mr. Lorry's desti
ss Manette?"
was like the last feeble echo of a sound
It was the Dover road that lay, on a Fri
still, and quiet. You must let me put yo
had caught up a bundle from among the fe
inted, with infinite delicacy and polite
nce, smote equally without distinction.
r crimes from the knitted register of Ma
he bank passenger--with an arm drawn thr
rible smell of foul sleep in it. Extraor
eferred to.
 and carpenters. As a tutor, whose attai
nia among some of them for sending it to
ll exacted on the morning of their marri
unged anew into a butchery so dreadful, 
uld not have parted from his lips for th
er heard or seen. Occasionally, a stray 
embrance that was the first cause of the
The young man had taken his hand gratefu
ed him. He had not asked the prisoner to
ce to his nephew with a smile.
e prison on the crag; and in the evening
ed this, carefully, on his knee, and it 
 disclosure in the expression of Miss Pr
Struck with consternation, the old gentl
Citizen Evremonde, will you let me hold 
From the dimly-lighted passages of the c
Next noontide saw the admirable woman in
 of a Storm
brow of the hill.
, "you know there really is so much too 
money, which he readily received.
The corner has been mentioned as a wonde
r, lounging with his elbow against the b
hick of business here, if you are true t
otection, directly down upon the old pri
ded forty steps (the prisoner of half an
our, he emerged from it to present himse
right to prevent you from copying, distr
to grind our corn at his mill, obliged t
"'Do you honour me with your attention, 
, irregular stones of the street, pointi
do in that galley there?" said Monsieur 
 me do, my Life?"
as one stone face too many, up at the ch
ted his face into a sterner expression.
alert, and made such good use of his tim
 much?"
 that. All such circumstances were indif
e it lay on the base of the fountain, sa
d up. He showed no surprise at seeing an
t majority of the foreheads there, might
 day. But he was not persuaded. No! Take
 lady," said Mr. Stryver; "I'll do that 
t he was better than they, was not there
heir breath again.
Tellson's Bank had a run upon it in the 
 sky of the South and under the clouds o
he bank. You are the quickest messenger 
rwards flay the victim, she would infall
and demanded to know if I would take him
have been a takin', to keep her courage 
 again raised. Doctor Manette sat down, 
ople cannot take care of yourselves and 
 them would have shot with the greatest 
whether it was not true that he had live
 in the employ of the republican French 
e was pitiable and dreadful. It was not 
ion of it be prevented? How should a rep
s shoulders in advance of him.
currence. Everybody looked to see somebo
y the rusty iron point with which I writ
may demand a refund in writing without f
ceived that the shoemaker's bench and to
the eyes of the mind, as from the eyes o
ll that you can have no tenderness for m
t solicit donations in locations where w
inated--that he would not be released th
 and the business, of old, and is in Tel
there, was I?"
 waiting for the meal, he sat so still, 
 settles on my chest and voice," said Je
Mr. Solicitor-General then, following hi
s seemed to crawl in. Through the rusted
 to La Guillotine. All the devouring and
ed information, in words as suitable as 
tenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
ss the intermediate room, she looked in 
ested on the step by his asking, miserab
ould recall some occasions on which her 
et, and many wooden shoes. The hands of 
s sake, is the hardest thing to do of al
trafficker in blood, and one of the grea
aricious and all in it), a man wouldn't 
 dissatisfaction.
the streets again. As he passed along to
whose faces, as their long hair flapped 
ing a written explanation to the person 
uch of the future peace of mind enjoyabl
s abyss, and, in their struggles to be t
to the open air. A hackney-coach was cal
 so fearfully wild.
ich the man dexterously combated by stir
er arm, "the young lady. The young lady 
Worse quarters than Defarge's wine-shop,
 an object, he took a turn or two in the
eir Work, count Two.
til they were dug out.
c.
ood, and never will."
sight of him that he could ask the Enemy
s.
 his unconscious attitude, but drained h
herefore made arrangements to absent him
n this spot, by the light of this lamp. 
."
But, he feigned not to notice the two st
look it in the face. I have looked it in
of the infamy and disgrace for which it 
at the counter.
"Yes. I come from Doctor Manette."
he rooms; a round room, in one of the ch
XXIV. Drawn to the Loadstone Rock
Awakened by a timid local functionary an
"Now, Aggerawayter! What are you up to? 
 The uncontrollable and hopeless mass of
was never known. As he stood staring at 
trees, when that sufferer was put to dea
Who gave them out, whence they last came
 hands.
ompromising, murderous business-meaning 
 a bachelor," pursued Miss Pross, "befor
paper had been read. He had already expl
piky head down.
ut for her, and accosted her the moment 
 favoured napkin; a fourth (he of the tw
ot even turn to consider. After trying i
 table, resting his forehead on his hand
 By slow degrees the weight broke away t
assurances that I should save him; and I
movement were every day presented. Who c
orry saluted him cheerfully by his name,
der of things--for my sake. Your unselfi
not rest a moment."
red caps, armed with sabres and pistols,
Chapter I      Five Years Later      Cha
er of perpendicular lines with which I c
outdone, declared her to be a celestial 
and the wretched had been reflected in i
ious hand, an open scrap of paper. It bo
ther passengers eyed him distrustfully.
 buzz of the great flies was loud again.
st-hour, and should then meet the Doctor
omb, were carried high overhead: all sca
ut with her alarmed eyes on her question
The figures of a horse and rider came sl
ill, on his erring head. "Make the best 
heir range, that the change of which he 
t he deemed it necessary, as a matter of
cursed Judas--which he certainly did loo
ain your gentlemen in their travelling b
on, stamping his foot; "have I sworn by 
"What has gone wrong?" said Monsieur, ca
red in La Force! Room for the Bastille p
ul. It was not the faintness of physical
He shook his head.
s own.
uey carried the chocolate-pot into the s
t, sir?" he asked, as the result of that
le's altar. Therefore when the President
oulon company--set his head and heart on
 everything upon it--like an unusually e
But, the comfort was, that all the compa
rcy, obliged to work for him without pay
that had nothing articulate in it but bl
g his way up in that path of life which 
ing the courtyard he instinctively alter
en as so much Hebrew or Chaldean to Miss
 be represented as dead, and had a grand
CONTENTS
's table-drawers and pockets, and secret
clothing and aspect, and employed as usu
n plot, and that it will involve her lif
with it, that there might have been a sc
"French, eh?" repeated Carton, musing, a
ow stood looking at him, with hands whic
know that I cared what became of you, wh
d aspirations of the populace was, for i
 is ever to be found in an elderly gentl
is less open to suspicion of subornation
elevate himself to a gallows of the same
 day at her counter, so expressly uncons
ooking on, with the line round his wrist
me back, as quiet as you leave him. In a
hrough, that to stand up against it bowi
 down on this side of himself, then on t
 cares, like second-hand clothes, come e
XII. The Fellow of Delicacy
 would explain to me the details of the 
 families were publicly cautioned not to
 he and his two companions ascended high
 clerks. Those venerable and feeble pers
father with her hands clasped through hi
haps her child's--and perhaps her father
and the mob fired on the musketeers, and
he was from home. I took the opportunity
ervice; and Jerry (almost wholly transfe
With the look fixed upon him, in her pal
ntelligence; I want guiding. There is no
ectre!"
"Why do you want to know?"
 of his fingers as he looked at the othe
picuous--gave him good wishes and encour
"I have no hope," said Mr. Lorry, in a l
t my Little Guillotine. La, la, la; La, 
ee worthy of the pet, are always turning
not think," said Doctor Manette with the
of apples in sand. I had to pass through
ellson's, and he both banking at Tellson
nds more than once.
She was in great agitation. She presente
various small shops. To avoid attracting
cie, springing up and throwing her arms 
ornness up the hill, like an evil spirit
, performing, distributing or creating d
."
een known in England as Charles Darnay.
pared the pain of separation; and her fa
"My faith!" returned madame, coolly and 
 short, but very decided. Almost at the 
nting; the tax for the state, the tax fo
r a little while, and spoke steadily.
 stood. Against two of the pillars were 
 you come to France?"
presumption to assume so much--I could r
ay so? You were a cannonier that day the
himself into Soho while he was yet on Sa
one; leisurely, the new postilions follo
are hand does not tremble as he releases
d hold out, "as anything wot I have ever
of a night, without any detriment to his
To the eyes of Mr. Jeremiah Cruncher, si
ter land where I trust both you and I wi
, and kissing her cheek. "You will not b
called La Guillotine.
 cold and wet from the odd-job-man's fee
"What of Charles?"
always designedly held prisoner. It woul
ine; with a solemn interest in the whole
innocent man thus doomed to die, fell un
sed in the dingy trappings that were con
 of a piece of music of mine, who had no
returns.  Royalty payments should be cle
BUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE L
ds knitted into the likeness of the gall
He waited and waited, and the clock stru
"It would be madness if I asked you to e
ave you to judge what a damp way of earn
ound him, walked from one to another. Th
iness, and unfit to cope with such intri
ed friend of Miss Manette and of her fat
ut of the courtyard up a steep staircase
, husband and wife, The Vengeance, and J
"Hey!" cried the mender of roads, reflec
d the Grand Opera were charmingly repres
ld upon her bosom, who bears my name. I 
So long as a servant was present, no oth
e lamps in the court were now being ligh
sat munching and drinking near Madame De
s.
ey stopped again, paused, struck out the
 long time. When it was yet light enough
very one of those had perished in the ma
ntact links and up to date contact infor
 I had given her, and I sat at the side 
 strong root-ivy. It chanced that they d
peaking machine--truly, I am not much el
tionably seen, for a single moment, the 
ch a home by you, has stirred old shadow
o any ears they could lay hold of, at th
d leg, and was a little vain of it, for 
s on the watch for its disappearance; ho
ike. How the virtuous servant, Cly, was 
ord! Gentleman's valise and hot water to
 abandoned that attempt on the first day
"Yes."
re, and had not in plain words recorded 
"My dear Manette, if he were overworked 
 when they had bowed a customer out, sti
" said Mr. Stryver, preparing him with o
a breath along the surface of the gaunt 
nette. I break down before the knowledge
s. Cruncher must have been "flopping" in
d. The mad joy over the prisoners who we
the mire-deep roads. In this state they 
"
!"
Cruncher; "you'll have trouble enough wi
r, stopping in his story, and laying his
ving ocean, in its irruption into the Fo
 the National Palace. Madame Defarge too
d with an axe, in place of the usual sof
r heads upon their pillows; that, they n
 that Samson. Such a Barber!"
ght. Good morning."
by one sad idea, in her repetition of th
"I hope she will do well now," said Mr. 
After hailing the morn with this second 
Looking his companion full in the face w
it had not been Charles, it would have b
icense when you share it without charge 
in him!
 pushed out of the tall houses, in the w
been so intent on the accounts, but they
im, and so particularly determined not t
burning of wood in winter time, and all 
erved Defarge.
now in Paris, the simple fact, without c
said Madame Defarge. "Good patriots will
e favour, miss, to take notice o' two pr
s, with women screaming before it, and m
e Tribunal. He has not received the noti
 the cleared air, when Mr. Lorry, escort
again," muttered Jerry, as he turned, "I
and go back. It was dreadful to go in at
ned away, weep for it, weep for it!"
 woman? If you're a religious woman, giv
rough his, and took--and kept--her hand 
"A bad business this, madame, of Gaspard
 Lorry urged.
d for to-morrow."
kings in him of one of the best and grea
"Outside the blinds. Open the blinds."
ng note of these things, Darnay found hi
 may be snatched out of the mouth of her
, and I shall sleep like a child. Will y
When Mr. Lorry had finished his breakfas
always spy and secret informer, so much 
d fro at La Force, he heard One struck a
 was when they turned into the welcome s
at you are affected. I could not see my 
 Write on; there are but a few words mor
f its incommodiousness. They were even b
for a chance, have done to him.
ame, what he has in his hand. O pity us,
ned Mr. Cruncher, "is as you're right. L
not now. If your suit should prosper, if
im almost always. Not absolutely always,
"I will faithfully," replied the man, "i
interest of gallows, pillory, whipping-p
intentions of Miss Pross, as to admissio
hich nobody had seen of old; and on the 
 the man down-stairs), who had retreated
"If they are not in that room, they are 
"Yes?" said the Doctor, with evident con
self, and with Stryver and most other me
. "Forgive my curiosity; do you, under y
otice o' two promises and wows wot it is
 found to be G. There was no record or l
ovender, and the lamp he carried, on the
as I caught the younger brother's eyes, 
f that name.
"No."
elicacy of pity for him. What fine hidde
as a French gentleman; a scientific gent
oo, it behoved him to present himself in
y friend, talking, reading, looking out 
e like waves.
foresaw that even if it were all well wi
us decoration, and the Chief of them una
paper), and to let it fall with a rattle
ghter. My daughter, and those dear to he
right shawl twined about her head, thoug
eril of a less horrible sentence--had th
rdingly rolled his eyes about, until the
n, and some area-railings had been torn 
dens and taken his chocolate, caused the
eard his condemnation. He had fully comp
erry had been superstitious, he might ha
 kept it so a little while, he said, dra
g the wife of an emigrant prisoner under
dmit, at this distance of time, was a pa
Upon which, every man looked at his neig
y giving him a piece of my mind."
t bring smelling-salts, cold water, and 
ur heretofore the Marquis St. Evremonde,
member them, I know. It is not in your n
d Mr. Cruncher, "I hope so. Respectin' a
hey?"
 end.
em against the wall. The House itself, m
ithin twenty-four hours. The first of th
ng more of my stake in this; this is wha
time pressed, for the day was drawing to
shes on the hearth. There was a stool, a
ging fever of a nation, as it is in the 
strip the fastest gallop of the fastest 
 darkened, and his heart grew heavier ag
It was a profounder remark than Mr. Lorr
he diamond-cut-diamond arts in himself, 
"The news is of him. He is among us!"
n, these gentle aids to the power and ho
m from enjoying the pleasure of smoking 
ing,' Mr. Lorry. He was the only passeng
, and some of those of the posting-house
as of Beauvais. Like Monsieur Manette, y
at--as if by agreement--they each put a 
"Eh, well! Here you see me!" said madame
Section  2.  Information about the Missi
ough it had nothing in it like the real 
as anybody might who saw him as he showe
-looking, bloody-minded juryman, the Jac
p and down.
," said Doctor Manette, breaking into a 
"Again; on the other hand, they whisper 
ore noticed in the vast concourse that s
, at all, that I know of," said Sydney C
He helped Mr. Lorry to wrap himself in a
rselves, or you are deceived. I am not a
"You can be when you choose?"
ect of things rather took her fancy. It 
"Then I say yes," said Stryver: "I won't
-haunted cells was long and cold. Next d
og! A serf! Forced my brother to draw up
 Carton.
tter here, however) has passed through m
eat number of years, and performing many
hary of trusting themselves to the saint
"Not a theory; it was a fancy."
ssing and rolling upward from the depths
t side, and read--first to himself and t
on cheese, came running into the room in
 roof and grates, and in lifting her hea
n you or hearing of you for so long a ti
de.
ed door of the Doctor's room, where he w
ulnais is the name of his mother's famil
 urchin of twelve, who was his express i
 at church.
hat a petition was presented to the King
eagles by sprinkling salt on the tails o
"Mr. Jarvis Lorry, are you a clerk in Te
pended on thee--which, happily, it does 
enderly down in a coach. Her father and 
es combined made it almost insupportable
While he trotted back with the message h
s heavy upon me, for I always remember t
 thought the two were so alike. Mr. Crun
 heard, and rapidly expounded the story 
got together a compact repast for the li
gnity to notice it; his contemptuous eye
one on either side of him.
at."
ficulty, the cold is so severe, I am so 
sk it, and which you have an undoubted r
ble servant; but that, in a general way,
 sight than the man of good abilities an
voice, that it affected the senses like 
to avoid overloading the coach, but it w
wgate, Jerry stood: aiming at the prison
ildly crying, "record them at once, and 
"Do you mean the prisoner?" inquired the
 a general way, he preferred him to his 
on your way to another. You speak faintl
ome half-dozen particular friends, point
"You might, from your appearance, be the
e, warming with encouragement, shrieked,
t their money, make wrong additions, and
His daughter had one of her hands drawn 
im while they made ready, and while he b
"I have been free, I have been happy, ye
"Citizen, I desire nothing more than to 
arge, with the words "In secret."
e man. "Spies! Yaha! Tst! Spies!"
e mind of the prisoner leaning against t
g God for my great happiness. My thought
ese, standing out in the open air, was a
 and, casting up his eyes at the guard, 
d thus far on his last way. Being allowe
"Never you mind what it is!" the guard r
ife of quiet bliss, Lucie sat in the sti
emen," said Defarge, shaking his head.
d ask the Enemy no question, but immedia
d of Tellson's House since, and I have b
e lock-up hour, when the common rooms an
all spent, he said, rising:
 Behold the manner of it. I leaving my w
oon pipe in the contemplation of the dro
t I have known with you, and that we hav
imate friend of the Manettes, it entered
in strong colours. I have lost no time, 
 Two or three times. Not five or six? Pe
oving again; leisurely, the new horses c
ty changed to this extent--that it still
"I told you I would," said Mr. Cruncher,
ous God restored my faculties; but, I am
ye, voice to voice, hand to hand, heart 
ever seen a face so tenderly beautiful, 
as not long after his father. Under cove
 having been called away professionally,
t seemed to have been a soldier's.
of tumult broke and leaped into the air 
time and space. When the foremost billow
 pile, and similarly it must be knocked 
mong the personages who attended at the 
The answer was always the same: "Almost 
eyes which any unbrutalised beholder wou
d having spoken of a condition. Relieved
. In a hole in the chimney, where a ston
 all ages had been killed by the populac
hest shelving roof."
t yourself out of Law. As to what is dea
 put it down.
ty for the prisoner. Her forehead had be
y that he was."
dful.
ance.
ains, green banks, more King and Queen, 
Mr. Lorry glanced at the distant House, 
ut, this time was not quite like any oth
"And you were cut out for a bachelor," p
 were changed by the death they had died
But, though the bank was almost always w
o be executed on the spot, and that he w
oho, bent on seeking an opportunity of o
urrent donation methods and addresses.  
ig, it is to be presumed, was made of ha
stablishment in question, "than I, as a 
ived from outside the United States.  U.
e prisoner sprang up with a reproachful 
m."
as the foe of England and friend of the 
"Hardly any. The weather was stormy, and
o. You English are cold, it seems to me.
ne one way--Charles Darnay's way--the wa
ectronic works
d here was Wednesday come. There had bee
"
ating him on his escape from death.
 and inspiring, that Mr. Lorry caught th
laim to being the soul of Romance (for I
e fair faces, trod with stir enough, and
ight, dear father. I am deeply happy in 
y--"
e any symptoms of her saying Grace. He w
itself, are fused in the one realisation
for jests; it was the best cure for head
he Doctor; as if the golden arm uplifted
r, shaking himself out of it in chains o
 the winning game; I will play the losin
ked from every window, fluttered in ever
the rose, the customers ceased talking, 
y liked it or not. That, they never coul
 for the retreating step of his valet.
"'Is she dead?' asked the Marquis, whom 
lbow on Madame Defarge's little counter,
dead?"
 there were several knots of loungers, s
t.
 hid him somewhere till he was old. They
acques Three, of the restless fingers an
he U.S. unless a copyright notice is inc
. The bronze face, the shaggy black hair
 uneasiness in his mind, which had alrea
y-grated, unglazed window high in the wa
glish wife!--we saw the man, who was sup
e time, and the men sternly calling out 
in themselves, I would not have administ
ed and closed, and there stood before hi
ndergraduates as a sort of tolerated smu
t constantly paused and looked round to 
 the unfortunate woman a hard life by dw
ey clattered away under the feeble over-
 arrangement of his loose cravat, and hi
, and was carried off to Tellson's. Cart
r?"
uspense, and were now concluding their a
"Well!" said Defarge, with a half compla
f haggard eyes had looked at the questio
In such risings of fire and risings of s
may your meaning be, Mr. Lorry?"
e shade of a foolish fancy makes me shud
 that I knew her condition to be that of
y. Being allowed to purchase the means o
one realisation, Guillotine. And yet the
And when he lifted his eyes from it to t
o you that I know of no harm having happ
, and were made so poor, that our father
so often, that he believed it himself--w
 this form through mere passing conjurat
o whom in her trouble she had confided h
To her father himself, he wrote in the s
ver's papers before the setting in of th
called--! Bust me if I don't think he'd 
itting, and saw nothing.
e careless rejoinder. "It was nothing to
preface, because you once mentioned the 
d more or less, and grouped themselves a
which), passed from it as swiftly as a c
r me; wouldn't that be best?"
re in the sky. "It must be forty feet hi
eat foul nest of one high building--that
A sour wine, moreover, or a souring, for
d so strong was the voice within her, re
weet air. Then began the rarely lightene
ey's end. Not a mean village closed upon
: broaching to Monseigneur, his devices 
rom death.
ow was wet with wasted tears.
Jerry, thus encouraged, went on a few ya
"What's his goods, father?" asked the br
oject Gutenberg-tm electronic work and y
ght have kep' it back."
"I don't hear you," said Miss Pross. "Wh
sconcerted, "I have not asked myself the
n the merchant held up, whatever his num
 probably false. But it may be true."
her word on either side.
f roads, reflectively; "that's true."
ge! So far all goes well with us--much, 
ther answer than a gruff sound of acquie
 directed exercise, incapable of his own
n the triumphs of the day, and achieving
f face and upright of bearing, the shoem
English gentleman who is now in Paris, t
 Doctor spoke:
thing I say. I am like one who died youn
tomers who were drinking at the counter.
outside. From the first, I had anxiously
eventy-five. Environed by them, while th
will--he will be executed as a parricide
, dropping his soft voice to a tone that
what she observed.
no voice could be heard in it. A memorab
 whole number appeals by look or gesture
he sat looking up into his.
reathed a blessing towards it, and a Far
 and walked, by a damp soft footpath in 
tting a tune out of his teeth with it, w
s hand, hastened bareheaded out of the r
arles Darnay restless, and which still k
 much, aside. I declare to you, on the f
 had got out of the Centre of Truth--whi
and said, "Now I am ready!"
 Republic crouching in its bosom, the En
le fell to dancing. Instantly, all the r
e mist of a dream--had been done a year,
al cost, fee or expense to the user, pro
s I said to you when I first came, I had
ast, to the face from which they had wan
 with a mother, looking for a way across
igneur had the other truly noble idea, t
urs that might so incommode you, are onl
oke of three, and the furrow ploughed am
entleman of your years and benevolence, 
he lawless Court, and examined. That, he
All things, however, were in their place
id Sydney Carton, pausing in going by; f
 before him: and nearly opposite another
ry.
("I really think this must be a man!" wa
safe as an Englishman, and even Tellson'
ns. As for the roof he vaunted, he might
es. The name of the strong man of Old Sc
self to be quite undeserving. And yet I 
k and stature to render it unlikely that
he prisoners. If you are sure of what yo
en she began to falter. I did what littl
watched more closely than I was, and I k
t.
 over the well-worn Turkey carpet, suppo
. Lorry, in his business character.
The shoemaker stopped his work; looked w
 that stirred her heart too much. Flutte
 was stowed away among the neighbouring 
h year."
rooding sense of wrong, and an inveterat
find any leisure and interest for the st
ured Madame Defarge, smiling to The Veng
n her face on the edge of the bed, had d
"At last it is come, my dear!"
hat is before us, where I will be true t
f rebuilding Tellson's. In this respect 
--out of France. Even I, safe as an Engl
ckle; Pickle, pickle! And off _its_ head
"So, Mr. Lorry! Men of business may spea
he look and the action had occupied but 
ral called Mr. Jarvis Lorry.
t a sound was made. She stood, like a sp
anker would not have gone so far in his 
thout loss of precious time) of scarcely
fe was to be made a widow and his daught
"Ah!" returned Miss Pross, shaking her h
, a French Tellson's could get on with t
 have, except the clothes I wear, to kno
ung sister living, and her greatest desi
 out of Tellson's henceforth, and what w
 to her who received it, that she turned
in European languages, instead of convey
paper?"
 change, that he took the lead and direc
ry with vexation and disappointment!"
f very modern date--he knew that he had 
ched his neck to hear who they were. The
ootsore, and his ankles chafed and bleed
ief gaoler with his eyes, who moved acro
rved himself, and made the discovery."
ques Two, of Defarge, "that no embarrass
the three stopped under a bank overhangi
 passersby.
his name; his own wife had no suspicion 
at the assemblage a second time, Monsieu
is own, he took him down Ludgate-hill to
n at the most. He lay on his back, with 
 clasped him by the neck, and laid her f
ne and Indivisible. Liberty, Equality, F
 near her table. But, looking up at his 
clear-headed, and had none. He advised t
"How do you do?" inquired that lady then
thin 90 days of receiving it, you can re
ietly and lay as white and soft, as if i
tion. Keep it."
s a cat might have done to a mouse--and 
overheard.
Monseigneur--forming a goodly half of th
bserving that it was time to go to bed.
th the triumvirate of customers who were
eation of derivative works, reports, per
orry's eye caught his, he was taken with
father was grovelling on his face on the
thdays of little Lucie had been woven by
e lottery of Sainte Guillotine?"
gallows is fixed the knife, blade upward
y presence--nobles of great power all of
"Whatever housekeeping arrangement that 
pposed to a rose on the head-dress of Ma
eet stones?"
soner is. These are not the hands she kn
Slightly observant of the smoky lights; 
milar hammers, and it will twist itself 
he same voice called to me by my name. I
 treachery, and cruelty, to the whole co
st ties that will ever grace and gladden
er and more crowded parts of Paris, woul
ere encumbered with the bodies of the vi
rom old voices impelling me upward, that
 flash and a crash, and that crash was t
water. When you go to Rome, do as Rome d
u may as well go again me one way as ano
upon the door-post, and bowed his face u
 with their broad lines of stone colour.
radesman." His stock consisted of a wood
 a labourer in working clothes should be
 again in a corner there, and looking in
 and bare-legged, on the brown sea-sand,
 mother, I might have made some money la
Doctor Manette sat meditating after thes
, and it could depend on no better man. 
ll only die with me. It is madness."
, having seen it; and more. The upshot o
eir breath by the hour together, and the
be loosed. Never, if Saint Antoine knew 
"'How long,' I asked, 'has this lasted?'
 themselves were elephants, or something
ance. I make this little preface, becaus
 old and intent expression was a constan
He answered, in a low voice, "There is."
Perhaps a little angry with himself, as 
While we cannot and do not solicit contr
"Will you promise not to press one quest
in at doorways, leaves sparkled and rust
"How did it show itself? I infer," glanc
lon to pieces, and dig him into the grou
seigneur, the preparation of whose choco
n every door that opened on the general 
 use o' this here blessed old head o' mi
her. With an encouraging nod or two, he 
e      Chapter VII    Monseigneur in Tow
rface of face had come back to him. He w
d answering.
, I perceive, Sydney."
 obtained one infamous notoriety that ha
ctrines," said a third, eyeing the direc
ay go to bed."
 the note to Mr. Lorry, and do you make 
 down the stairs, the day was coldly loo
 spot where she stood when Miss Pross fi
, displaying, performing, copying or dis
some, as it seemed, in the room; some co
uld be your wishes. If it wos so, which 
ade a pretence of looking about as if fo
e Lucie," said Mr. Lorry at parting, "an
A second man got up and went out. Madame
.
ry, surprised.
in me?"
," said Mr. Lorry.
le creature on it.
ern on her sleeve with her toothpick, an
 and would show the prisoner already eng
ong day's botheration. Where is Manette?
out of my own hands, delivered it myself
ved and it assembles to gossip at the fo
reat pile of stable building away among 
 this service: though it was usually per
could dwell in the thoughts of his fair 
fell into Tellson's down two steps, and 
"What?" exclaimed the hungry man, starin
, most fervently, with all my heart, was
of the step, as a step taken, and not in
 and donations can help, see Sections 3 
urse of my business life, just as I pass
he Old Bailey a judge of beauty? She was
e transformation had come over him in a 
found composure, coughed another grain o
k of it they had bound a pike with a red
, "directly."
em, and telling Miss Pross how she spoil
Mr. Lorry waited until ten; but, Doctor 
e Defarge, with three flourishes. She ac
downstairs of his own accord. Kicked on 
enew it. I think that, henceforth, nothi
nt thing for a man to have a home when h
on the dusty, ragged, and toil-worn grou
e village fountain, and the horse in a f
ured an answer as if she had repeated it
 is a solitary road, that, where any spe
Release Date: January, 1994 [EBook #98] 
moved, and much sympathy with her father
s were pinioned. The two brothers crosse
at he would go to Paris.
e another, with the hail driving in betw
 have been infinitely less remarkable if
ere is in it. People are so unreasonable
m my mother's, is not, as you will remem
out of their holes.
furnished very indifferent space for thi
the whirlings of the grindstone brought 
 hard to be endured without some remonst
 child?"
f knocking.
t house of Tellson's as a blind, and tha
n regular changes, without a moment's in
ook quite terrified them all.
ing Paris, with them and you, at that ho
erciful consideration of all his poor bl
unication to a friend and brother Sheep 
bly shrewd way, "but all natural and rig
s point in the air. He is hanged there f
strong obligation he was under to go to 
is all the same. What would you have?"
Nearly all the individual works in the c
f the steps on which he was raised, look
then, came hurrying back to the Doctor, 
ant, and that peasant a boy. The only co
g man of Old Scripture had descended to 
s of loyalty, growlingly repeated the wo
t, and sorry for it on the poor father's
while engaged in the commission of their
g down to its short nightly pause in fur
upon his man like a spectre, as long as 
 uncle, with refined politeness; "I woul
y are granted (comparatively) to so few!
"That is what I mean to tell you, sir," 
ve for eighteen years!"
 and preparings of the way. My heart is 
ave been warmer in his manner. It appear
"Doctor Manette, look upon the prisoner.
is daughter sat under the plane-tree tog
 with as complete an appearance of satis
t to say:--it might be painful to you to
he Conciergerie; I have timely informati
eventeen, in a riding-cloak, and still h
erybody recognised, and which nobody had
 of their marriage. He entreated her, fo
, besides, with such humane achievements
re so cast as that, being one day so hap
id women (mostly of a full habit and pas
e returned, evasively, "the present time
y, a going in and going out to their own
Mr. Lorry quietly chafed the hands that 
life might have been."
tructions, to spare the people, to give 
e of an evening, until I have fancied--b
changes upon him. The prisoner was like 
ched Mr. Stryver on the shoulder, and sa
rd tells me."
age, that, in the narrow streets without
idn't quite mean what I said."
ith her hands on his breast, and the inq
TWO CITIES ***
Defarge closed the door carefully, and s
he grave that had been dug for him. But,
 thank you with all our hearts, and all 
e on the heap of stones. His eyes were s
ompletely: obliging me to rise too, or I
ity of the people.
n for the special benefit of Mr. Lorry. 
 up to go among the trusty people who we
nd to hold his peace.
he guard shot three dead, and then got s
t or wrong."
ed under it to remark to them that he wa
he loftiest contempt.
t believeth in me, though he were dead, 
nfallibly prevented the hair from turnin
ought herself of the wine they wanted. A
ed with the clapping of hands. Similarly
 in an impure mist and rain.
For additional contact information:     
was the most ardent of Republicans, and 
man says at the fountain, that his right
t have administered any of those.
e gently places her with her back to the
s's mind that the doors were all standin
ffensive.
hrough the darkness, and through the dus
perplexity, or wonder, or alarm, or mere
 bearer has a short note      from Charl
o impossible. I even believe it--in some
 in her carriage.
ht, to recognise in Doctor Manette, inte
endered them occasional service; and Jer
ity, or Death, Monseigneur's house had b
 Sainte Guillotine"--for the great sharp
isoner as good as dead and gone.
"I turned her gently over, placed my han
he lived. Her father had gone on before,
en I was clear of the house, a black muf
 grasses, and any such small yieldings o
the craving air. "The name of that priso
s city, so dreadful to him."
"'If you remember,'" said Carton, dictat
"DEAREST,--Take courage.  I am well, and
"Bah! Go aside!" said Monsieur Gabelle.
his done, he went on direct to Defarge's
"Then, I think," said Mr. Lorry, "that I
re you really give me an advantage over 
 you know," said Mr. Lorry, delighted to
me to myself, I will be helpful now in r
ake my word for it. Well! If you could e
 in his dusky wings, and they, having fi
nt man of business. Assuming for a momen
he most frightful mercenary crimes that 
sieur the Marquis, with his flambeau-bea
at night he sat carousing with Sydney Ca
imals, men, women, children, and the soi
ications of patients are always received
 man; he was so far from having harshly 
"Buried how long?"
c wielders of these weapons snatched the
r brought in question, any more than if 
e."
h. "He is a traitor since the decree. Hi
rass may grow from him! With these cries
s for firing, and a heap of apples in sa
ter?"
em, besides, in sound English, and rende
hat never came would be heard in their s
easants at the fountain, and the mender 
rigand were sufficiently near it, he sho
ny over-hanging trees, was upon Monsieur
ble, and not only possible, but done--do
 Who's this man?"
Thus the evening wore away with the Crun
ly contrasting with the rest, that never
?"
 roads, to be so much air as against thi
the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm tr
ng a bite out of his bread-and-butter, a
Rock.
The Marquis took a gentle little pinch o
and of my child!"
ench in feathered hats; but the rough re
isdoubted him to be an apparition of his
heir souls. These were to the full as in
n thing, and had paid for it, and could 
 into saying, as she laid her appealing 
e prisoner was brought in, and put to th
pared for a young lady who may come here
 perverted, that Lucie Manette wept mour
an himself as to make himself one?"
onversation, Miss Manette."
"Good day!"
"Ah! It is not probable he will arrive t
r diplomacy would stop me by any means, 
ger opportunity. If it had been otherwis
"To no one." Carton still had his hand i
"What man, pig? And why look there?"
ss Pross curtseyed at the name; "and as 
Naturally struck by the disagreeable wor
, as though his finger were the fine poi
 them.
--O my wife, beloved of my heart! My fai
 depository for firewood and the like, w
. There could have been no such Revoluti
urprising nature. I have done my best to
embled, and a vague but heavy fear was u
te resolution Charles Darnay had begun t
adside retreating by jerks, the night sh
ul whether their rays have even yet disc
ne of the patriots kept girded round his
eau, lion and human, stared blindly at t
eau as it was to be a very few years hen
ssionate swoon, and were only saved by t
ad been in his life--when the weary pass
It was curious. The moment Madame Defarg
he would be touched, whether the touchin
o us here (I speak in strict confidence;
r witness to them this very day?"
 Go you there, straight, for there will 
 seeming to recover their sense of heari
ut all armed alike in hunger and revenge
"If you come to advancing you know," sai
pa! O, look at her, dear Carton! Can you
hind Madame Defarge, explaining the caus
life--and you were always both--you will
h his blue cap: feeling it mightily clos
 to take me in, near the great cathedral
er!"
e a litter for him and escorted him care
r. There were a few customers, drinking 
aving his remedy at hand; for, soon the 
I am fainter now you take me out. The pa
 to you. Second: them poor things well o
"Is Lucie the topic?"
, subdued way, as if the noise out of wh
ir faces. Carton was the first to speak:
Apparently not, for he became gloomy aga
patched into them with straw and rag and
 have the hopefulness to do it for weeks
, where is that emigrant? I cry in my sl
my father? You remember coming up here?"
go in."
 bless each other. The spare hand does n
 shoe--the drag."
hing he could think of with a round turn
He bent over the golden head, and put th
; they remained in the road below him. T
is hands in his pockets, and his eyes on
ny people got on the roof of the hearse 
ned to the golden-haired doll?"
vily, but, by degrees, began to roll and
olden hair, and she looked like * * * * 
ith less internal deference than he made
s came out, the usual watch was set, and
ckground of eager eyes and open mouths, 
m, and upon the grown faces, and ploughe
 murder and some clean, some sober and s
ng agin your father's prosperity. You've
The Spy withdrew, and Carton seated hims
burnt cheek and a dark eye. His conditio
--ah! equally like smoke, if not more so
 tossing, in quest of Defarge himself. S
rloiner of forty shillings and sixpence 
"That night, the last night of the year,
s to these in the prisoner's pockets, ov
 crowd to be carried as the Goddess of L
wine, with a bowl of battered small coin
whose life always seemed to him to have 
n was a constant, not an occasional, thi
 at the shoe with some little passing to
l town to-night. May He have mercy on al
 dark nights that hold their breath by t
spect: he had never at all known him in 
"I have pictured my daughter, to myself,
 charity--never thought of such a thing.
 day!"
d," said Carton, taking the answer on hi
or the truth!"
answered, shuddering.
, one or other of them had always jealou
urageous for his sake, that it called th
em, but who had been leaning against the
I thought what I was doing! How lightly 
"Show me the North Tower!" said Defarge.
ll was covered by inscriptions which had
-shop entered at the door, the spy salut
consequence, country airs circulated in 
ing it--" said Mr. Lorry.
it.
. The task of recalling him from the vag
"Vapour?"
iseases were bred, that came into court 
ng been hateful to the suffering many.
It was done.
cutter of wood into lengths for burning,
The spy, who was there to pick up any cr
ing out of window at these harmless obje
l open all my heart--or nearly so. Have 
h from behind, and my arms were pinioned
 great brotherhood of Spies had become, 
ed to cloud too. When it was dark, and h
By that time, there was only one adventu
houghts, the escort appeared, took her i
soner was like a young child in his hand
e refilled, and the time was, at best, s
She had never seen him softened, and was
ow we shall have hundreds of people pret
"Don't torture a poor forlorn wretch," h
e is she?"
As the patient eyes were lifted to his f
e of the reasons for my going: not for m
Exceedingly red-eyed and grim, as if he 
 the footing I have indicated. I thank y
 DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the 
onde. Such a poor weak little creature!"
, he must on to his journey's end. Not a
al lists to French gentlemen at Calais, 
ers, "command yourself. What a disordere
d lifted itself into that singular expre
ugh subdued by the distance. He referred
nion was the likeliest occurrence. Every
im at all, it is only to a quiet smile, 
 it turned towards him in the passages o
re they had been born and bred; also, th
"Look back, look back, and see if we are
 out. He turned into the Temple, and, ha
s he like?' I make response, 'Tall as a 
first time since the beginning of the co
r, and looked up for the first time sinc
ing, of your being everything to all of 
ow that this was changed, and he knew hi
y low, and I did not hear what they said
ke something to eat, you can. But, keep 
"You must be, Mr. Carton, if the tale of
t seven of the clock on a windy March mo
 was the response of Monsieur Defarge.
ss Pross, sorely hurt, would have retire
f us, Miss Manette, or are we to divide 
ight movement of her hand towards the fa
He had no opportunity of saying, or so m
nd sticking up of hair, such delicate co
en at Tellson's--have it characterised f
e pleasant with her, on occasion.)
ed to strike across the earth, messieurs
nd have repented them in poverty and obs
 to the tread of coming feet, that it se
, to deaden the sound of the shrieks. Th
riends for her, as He did for me."
 ever.
med Jerry, recalling the Trial at which 
nced darkly at one another. The looks of
at this time of my life, no. For, as I d
utter a tremendous curse. No direct answ
ss. It was not for his friend to abate t
 in hand.--Where is the loft window? It 
s glaring eyes looking straight upward. 
 her drooping head upon her shoulder.
tor of Beauvais."
"To-night?" said the mender of roads.
estimony to what I have said, and to you
king of hands, and even joining of hands
 four years ago. He had asked the prison
l-side, head first, as a person plunges 
 and making a barrier behind which they 
"He may not have known of it beforehand,
I will remember it as long as I live."
d: he that believeth in me, though he we
dge, and the massive stone walls, and th
 weather-beaten sill of the great window
erefore Mr. Attorney-General had made th
t America, Miss Manette? Be particular."
"Have you written 'forget them'?" Carton
Without directly answering to this appea
as itself. But I love her. Heaven is my 
"Shave? Always. Every day. What a barber
e been looking everywhere for my bench, 
the desert-sand had risen far away, and 
 in a day or two. Your deeds got into ex
"Willingly.
confident. So much more wicked and distr
nnately derived from it that ability to 
lightest provocation. Yet, a French Tell
Mr. Cruncher was so bewildered that he c
on his way to dig some one out of a grav
 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional 
d Darnay," was at length arraigned.
s, he was, to all outward appearance, as
 the passages of the Court House.
when you leave it empty!"
 furtherance of the reigning terror, a w
great obsequiousness to assist at this e
 boiling oil, melted lead, hot resin, wa
It clearly being incumbent on some one t
n I am a man of more--more--"
e.
gnised by Miss Pross as the affectionate
 wife, though a lady of great courage an
ttle roughness in the sport, and much pl
f the stone figure attached to it, was a
 Now, a child. Tickle, tickle; Pickle, p
He made no effort to say why not, and sa
, it's my duty to tell you--and I tell y
"
n all quarters of the court; insomuch, t
 as the sound of her compassionate voice
k with solicitude at her father, Doctor 
o them in his whispering to all the vill
 him as he stood looking back at her.
 voice:
knew it. We know now, the natural antipa
er fell, the face with the two dints in 
nd to take Jerry. Jerry has been my body
into his road and saw its end.
a wilderness of misery and ruin!"
n on his cheek.
icks and your unfeeling conduct. Look at
The prisoner looked up, at each question
not much) ran: "The earth and the fulnes
op stood looking at him, a white-haired 
t has never haunted me!"
e suspicious appearance to the suspiciou
"I could not better testify my respect f
 the public interest and memory, far out
cannot read what I have written with thi
.
ough, here; but seen in its integrity, u
ease to enter the carriage?'
pearance until a long time afterwards, w
assed through my mind often. One cannot 
m his thoughts had wandered away.
 "Bring him out! Bring him to the lamp!"
h (he of the two gold watches), poured t
in earnest tears, "I know you would say 
daybreak revealed his solitary figure li
be and proofread public domain works in 
 leafless trees. Have these men deceived
sed themselves on Mr. Lorry, as importan
he Court, and had not been overshadowed 
."
to speak more. He looked up, for an inst
ter to Miss Manette's apartment. It was 
little there was to give--such fuel as t
an, who was supposed to be at the gate, 
"You speak like a Frenchman."
was done, he muffled again.
 cracked his whip, and they clattered aw
o may come here at any time to-day. She 
, and roosted in by poultry, which the F
nd things," Carton said, "and any of the
ies; but, this had never been frequently
dye-works, tanneries, and the like, cott
"For the love of Heaven, of justice, of 
e, also, highly approved.
 as the Marquis supposed. If a picture o
aled his spiky head from the observation
sted there through many lingering years.
les Darnay rose and wished him good nigh
From the streets beyond the high wall an
"What is it that your husband says in th
circumstances in which it has been nurtu
 Monseigneur. In the outermost room were
 under those circumstances.
 straw travelling-hat by its ribbon in h
 gate, and saw them admitted by the port
 one of the theatre doors, there was a l
urself. But it is useless to discuss the
 have violently perished; how many accou
, unquestionably innocent of any crime a
eaven our suffering! Hear me, my dead ba
f the words that filled it. I took my yo
ughter drew closer to him. The craving m
he father and daughter departed in it.
n his head but to fly at anybody who tou
half stifled, and half reproaching him, 
*****
fidence, and have no secret from you."
f rifting and knitting itself into an ex
unctionaries less fortunate, that night 
ty places in the projected entertainment
 ago. Let it be."
"It is you, Monseigneur! Monseigneur, a 
e, complexion dark, eyes dark, thin, lon
nk courtyard, and even to a Cupid over t
ey. "For the love of Heaven, of justice,
 some day--work."
"Yes," replied Darnay, looking at him wi
rmer strong foreign accent. "Yes, madame
"
et from all who knew him. In conjunction
e Conciergerie, the doomed of the day aw
 lives, that, if the heads laid low befo
w now. That perils had thickened about h
 Lombard-street, London, and also of a c
 in his absorption, stretched his neck t
im that he stopped, wandered, and began 
 the July weather, as he sat on his heap
 this child, and much less, have not bee
only the more respectable.
Molten lead and iron boiled in the marbl
t he had studied the figure from the lif
for which I shall be summoned before the
, to run to the spot and drink the wine.
 brewery, poor tannery, poor tavern, poo
e.
t may spare all sides what is best spare
 king was tried, doomed, and beheaded; t
r Mr. Jarvis Lorry, or she may only ask 
s remarkable if he had said it with his 
man in his box at the door of Tellson's 
rrupted saunter. Some of the people of t
nd positions had been reversed (which is
er it like a wild animal.
equently slow, they drive him with their
s but these its own workings, and a few 
of cool fresh water, madame."
od," say the seers to the enchanted, in 
"For me."
ing to The Vengeance. "Save him now, my 
imed, "What do you tell me! I left him s
 shadows, with the moon and the clouds s
nseigneur never troubled it.
 have polluted the air, even if poverty 
ot to be so, but France in all such thin
ore him, so composedly, that they had no
er's mind to enter the bank, and reveal 
wall with his hand, and mutter a tremend
a Professor; in that age, he was a Tutor
hunger-worn young fingers, and touched h
k against his face. He put her gently fr
 the day before yesterday was, as usual,
"I am pretty well, I thank you," answere
ngeance and retribution require a long t
nting, and evidently made him uneasy. In
 out about my Ladybird."
Thus, with beer-drinking, pipe-smoking, 
es Three, who had come close up.
 father, and the child, by a bright fire
the best health and in the happiest fram
ering shouts.
 windy March morning, Anno Domini sevent
runcher rose and stepped forward. His ha
y under the night sky, concentrated into
rotested, with tears.
lden-haired doll, and were quick to see 
"You anticipate what I would say, though
y, dangerous man.
; Defarge standing between them and the 
an walking to and fro in restless anxiet
practically ANYTHING with public domain 
 drives up to be examined.
al by the multitude of enemies of the Re
ctor, entering the dark room at the mome
engaged herself in her usual work, nor h
consent, the likeness became much more r
 sought the ground.
-General was making ready to speak.
He found the Doctor reading in his arm-c
ckly as they might, ascended the stairca
Within half an hour from the first start
" said Charles Darnay, with a smile. "It
ve, being more independent in circumstan
ned so suddenly that they were lucky to 
"how do I do what I do?"
"I'll run them over. I'll see what I hol
 garden!
h a plain face, on the throne of England
t he would, behind the little counter, a
cell, with a fellow-citizen who is one o
Therefore, when Sunday came, the mender 
mind that you describe, is, at all event
ning upon what I had lost, that I have b
where he stood with his wife and child c
o you want to be the death of me?" asked
 the like, cottages in twos and threes, 
s shut, and touched it. He had heard of 
le burial-ground, with a Cross and a new
d troubles in the reason that I have to-
 said Carton. "I hold another card, Mr. 
t few common-places, she observed a chan
o Defarge as if he would have transferre
seat.
the sawyer. "Every day, in all weathers,
e swiftly than politely by the other two
 certain leagues with this good mender o
en measure, and good measure too, or a g
ther was my brother, that father was my 
mory; it can recall, and could detail, e
 place and its appointed time. Little Lu
 Indeed they were at sea, and the ship a
ave been a little resentful of your empl
 of Carton,--who was a mystery to wiser 
men at Calais, and similar lists to Fren
"Then be so kind," urged Miss Manette, "
e; it was a natural and worthy one; but 
 not recall you--forgive me again!--to a
 the door, and the word was given:
nd then the second fisherman got over, a
d him good night. Without returning the 
 Earnestness in you, is anything but ala
 me thou--is there no other place to wri
 you must cease using and return or dest
hat the flambeau carried up the steps, a
 unwilling to leave Lucie any longer, it
red after me--the last springing in, aft
ing her hand. "They are very numerous an
e than that she was like her mother. The
as a raw evening, and the misty river, b
VI. Hundreds of People
apital.
who had been discharged into the street 
 destroyed--razed to the ground.
is late work, the Doctor looked troubled
han she. He made her another bow.
elf as meaning "Old Nick's."
oor tavern, poor stable-yard for relays 
ground.
t insolent. He stood, half turned from t
ut, he heard them always.
as hundreds of miles away, and Madame De
e who had been that day put to death, an
h other in feature, so unlike each other
"I am that child, I hope, my father. O m
weak creature like me?"
 you may buy your food, and nothing more
y, "I implore you to have pity on me and
? To whom did he appear to repeat her fa
Jerry.
them in;--and immediately afterwards lea
would go back five years, and would show
ck to burn, strayed within sight of the 
ped that he could meet the end with quie
 more.
late, and his tears fell.
With those words the passenger opened th
saw Sydney. Up one minute and down the n
f horses, and with no likelihood upon it
t for ever and ever, in you or in a hund
e this gentleman is to be found."
ct both in his tone and in his touch, th
n cheek, cadaverous colour, emaciated ha
wn; for, did not his eyes show him his f
 as a tempter and an eavesdropper among 
So, the time came for him to bid Lucie g
 in some of its imaginings, a secret to 
s, and spoke in whispers. She could neve
hut himself up inside, keep the flint an
, Lucie Manette passed into the open air
ere was a secrecy in his smiling face, a
st of it.
"I neither want any thanks, nor merit an
Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
nd stood waiting until the countryman ha
ge followed the light closely with his e
"I asked leave to teach myself, and I go
A suspended interest and a prevalent abs
nd jangle) for that he was a false trait
 or perhaps two; but, since then, they h
 form was either just going off, or just
t breast, and that it lies there alone, 
"Those rooms are all in disorder, there 
 for the hoisting up of stores from the 
ain into its stone basin; for, it was on
"
ped to look under the carriage.
park of encouragement in the case, was, 
st at the closing sports, but had remain
her's cheek, as the spirit departed from
 Miss Pross to herself; "and you shall n
" assented Mr. Lorry, trying to persuade
ed, and his right hand pushed the herbs 
d-towers of Babel to scale the skies wit
the prisoner."
kly raised her, even from that shock.
n now, when I believe he is more hopeful
this is not a voice she ever heard. No, 
e the people were going to rest, forgetf
ise of agility climbed up the external a
can decipher it; but shall we always be 
m.
ught of nothing but the number of horizo
 heads and passed in:
ng of spirits. Among these, accordingly,
at he looked up oftener, and that he app
 such a wise and elegant thrift that it 
shoe of Madame Defarge where she had tro
"Here, sir! It's a fight to get back aga
its of the scene: noisily commenting, ap
soner, do this last night of the year 17
 passenger by the mail, and passengers b
took a young man into Tellson's London h
ed.
as being himself a man to whom it was no
on briskly, and came up to the front of 
d manner, Mr. Lorry answered:
h shelter as he could get from a shower 
 took up a light.
"How can you say that? Wouldn't She weep
 the wall--there, risen to some eight or
-to console her father, by impressing hi
us common dogs to carts, and drive us. T
ncidence. He didn't call it a particular
 it, he poured out and drank another gla
" said the wine-shop keeper, crossing th
Marquis--it is a pity--yes."
t first, was growing dreadfully skilful,
ce people whose lives the guillotine the
Madame Defarge looked superciliously at 
"What have _you_ got to do with it, then
rom Tellson's immediately, if it suited 
d no eye for pictures: or of a piece of 
ed La Guillotine, why did you come to Fr
oney for them, and deliberately left the
y a coin flying into his carriage, and r
s and loves you at my age, loves her mot
 work before, and his head was bent down
ey were wildest, never rose near the hap
Madame Defarge, his wife, sat in the sho
o light to speak of could be expected fr
In the hope of his recovery, and of reso
o which the storm called Life must hush 
iving tongue spoken all over the world, 
Still, the Doctor, with shaded forehead,
"In short," said Sydney, "this is a desp
"Don't recall her to herself," he said, 
elpful now in restoring the dearest part
n of whispering was upon it, and also, w
nient and retired spot.
p and down, softly repeating their names
Charles Evremonde, called Darnay, was ac
urs, when sundry summer-houses had been 
 in the stables rattled at their racks, 
in the year 1757, I was walking on a ret
t."
 shut, we read it, here on this spot, by
se inspection, for the purpose--and with
"Why, yes, of Beauvais. Like Monsieur Ma
er, blessed words!
ng out of his sleeping closet, where he 
he accused explained that the citizen wa
"--I would abandon it, and live otherwis
s selections from it, and his remarks up
wallowed up. He knew, as every one emplo
oes you the greatest credit, and--in sho
 blaze for the picture of that younger e
--worn down by misery. I cannot read wha
Walking regularly to and fro with his ar
t. Whether it was alive. Whether it had 
 my brother Solomon used to say. Now, Mr
e rustle of silk and brocade and fine li
ting little hand that confidingly advanc
"
refore, loud on the theme: broaching to 
the hollow of the left, and then the knu
"Into the court."
 gesticulation, and the horses are pulle
on and attitude were, on the whole, subl
ou see me again! May I ask a question, D
ce.'
otten ring of intrigue, corruption, and 
ellow of Delicacy      Chapter XIII   Th
, and then he was represented by his son
miserable creature fell upon his shoulde
u mistake me for another. That is not my
 natural self with, issued forth to the 
" said Madame Defarge. "No, I cannot spa
mmense sensation in the little crowd; bu
at you may at once ascertain that, with 
e no better life?"
oldly reading the Lord's Prayer backward
 darkness, and bridle was drawn in the s
Manette, your mother took this course wi
"Your clemency, Monseigneur! He was not 
That he had fallen among far greater dan
"Three voices. Ernest Defarge, wine-vend
 over. It was the incident of every day,
ng her toothpick with profound composure
hers she was sinking fast, and could not
p and down the room.
xamined the signature by the dingiest of
Once more, the two spectators started, a
"No matter, the number," said Defarge. "
ed death and come to life again! A plot 
ng as they had been all day. Something e
 but slightly changed from my mother's, 
e word.
farge moved on from group to group, all 
g. He came to her relief with a fixed de
last drop of blood having been extracted
regretted days of the merry Stuart who s
the journey.
odical manners; "and if business is to b
rther away, as soon as he could, and the
 things with ease, and was by some few s
The two stand in the fast-thinning thron
latter:
r him. "It all tended to a good end, my 
of dainty remedies for imaginary disorde
failed; but they were few and slight, an
ogether. This must be a strange night to
"So-ho!" the guard sang out, as loud as 
at, without havin' his serious thoughts 
ds him with sudden distrust. He had not 
rs before midnight--at a time, by my wat
aid down her knitting, and began to pin 
 could with a clear conscience have take
 and her child wore, were as neat and as
caution against evil, yesterday. When is
her glass with brandy, poured it slowly 
 leave the city, Mr. Lorry went out in q
 come for a private word."
 was a mirror, and slightly altered the 
rence to the discovery that had been tol
ughter, which is no imputation on him, f
counter, and said, "Certainly, a little 
o the theme, "you are young."
 it was the worst of times, it was the a
"They are in great danger. They are in d
is desk, and Charles Darnay stood leanin
ace, high and low, from the king's palac
ed with the arm looked, not an every day
 saw stopped in its work. "But it's not 
, but it's wery hard to spile him, sir."
ng out, a man parted from another man in
fident tread of such a character, and wi
the cliffs, and brought the coast down, 
nd when I was brought to the North Tower
tion's? Accordingly, the forger was put 
or on either side of him in the old mann
 wife. It was as if a professed unbeliev
Into his handsome face, the bitter water
"See!" returned the mender of roads, wit
ille falls, he finds this paper of to-da
riage.
met and pointing him out, they carried h
nd hotel in Paris. Monseigneur was in hi
y of taking Darnay aside into a window, 
 hair overshadowed his face:
 spoken, so as to place me between thems
 be long in coming, when new ties will b
my pocket-book," with a hurried hand he 
d."
s he turned, "I should have known what y
There is a guard of sundry horsemen ridi
o go, and will lead him to the end that 
eated, when he added, in a hurry, "Yes, 
within a few weeks before the date of th
ty. With this uneasiness half stifled, a
is hearing as just spoken--distinctly in
He made all manner of gestures while he 
-and if I could, how should I tell her! 
ne at www.gutenberg.org
cations where we have not received writt
 the service of her happy influence thro
Hastily written on the paper was the wor
g-tm electronic works if you follow the 
d as freely as blood at another time, an
"
 pass by us, solitary farms, ruinous bui
and was stooping to work again, when his
"Go on then," said Defarge.
most dangerous man in the world to go ov
yet discovered any traces of the person 
atre-doors, to one of the city gates. So
Mr. Lorry, had been lost in amazement at
vely apart, "these are the papers of mon
 as to entertain any suspicion that they
e man with the craving.
"Entreat me to believe it no more, Miss 
olid ground than moral certainty. Unprep
mile.
at they were not fit for the journey.
ifficult matters. I do not possess the k
me than suffering, more to me than wrong
among us! He was willing enough, but my 
de him, and he bent over his work.
. And you will see how truly I spoke of 
knives, bayonets, swords, all brought to
Mr. Lorry, who had gone out when the you
ctor), which led to a few words of secre
uncher, glancing over his shoulder, "it'
s that shone among the smiles of the lit
, poisoning the water."
aring your life and home, and being fait
nd no mention of it among the relics of 
"My dear Manette, I am anxious to have y
neighbouring church, where no strange ey
pointed as if he saw the gallows somewhe
 jewels and silks and powder and splendo
of a strong resolution and a set purpose
urse of those occasions is heavy upon me
he time occupied in examining it and its
 by an express conviction that, if it we
r him. He has not relinquished her patie
 roast.
d villages with the people all awake! * 
r. Or, if it had been no other, I should
 mildly tapping the Stryver arm, "the yo
orry, absolutely desperate. "No, Lucie, 
with a scrap of folded rag attached to i
 but, they were naturally large, and loo
He embraced her, solemnly commended her 
g Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
nted.
 imparted a peculiar delicacy to the com
"Who's he?" said Miss Pross.
ncher, after surveying him in silence un
ecuted.--You?"
und under another name; his own, long fo
ry lean bare arm, that had been without 
o fruits of the earth that year, diversi
ich he had been remitted until morning, 
h a new forest of smoke. Molten lead and
years younger than I, and she lives in a
imens of the writing of Doctor Manette. 
nged for our leaving Paris at once, so t
 set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
ove away. Not many people had talked wit
went on to shape itself out.
of one of our customers."
out liking you, and not liking you. I wi
 knitted and warbled, that he would do b
o the wound in his breast, and with his 
ked at his neighbour, and then all cast 
s friendliness for the disclosure he was
 his books were in frequent requisition 
ldered himself into the musty back close
and resigning himself to let it eat him 
o anything that would hold them, were lo
 looking down from his box.
Cruncher.
nted meanwhile, not only to ease his spe
ee, were in the first press, and at no g
 I can afford to please myself. She will
 toil-worn group at the fountain not far
eaven knows that I am innocent of any. I
Temple, and, having revived himself by t
"Oh! if you come to prosperous, you are 
 together, men danced together, as hazar
his vision, there were airy galleries fr
For, the time was to come, when the gaun
eft, her talk would of necessity have re
in the aversion with which his conscienc
re the last Marquis had slept. East, Wes
as I."
ering that it was worse than useless to 
"She lingered for a week. Towards the la
tes, it entered Mr. Stryver's mind to en
As he took a chair himself, he supplied 
appen."
hours.
lack baskets of Dead Sea fruit to black 
, the coarse woollen red cap, the rough 
 into stone, that he stood with the lamp
orrow was already set apart.
at I have to kneel to my honoured father
 as complete as if each had been in his 
er distance, and her knife was in her ha
ents.
r elder, for saying so, I really don't k
"I think, Charles, poor Mr. Carton deser
y such dogs have been taken out to be ha
"How was this?--_Was it you_?"
"Yours is a long life to look back upon,
, Heaven defeat the fancy of Lucie Darna
e of life.
e of whom you speak so graciously.'
iss Pross, in harness of string, awakeni
Defarge and the three glanced darkly at 
ation on that functionary's part, the me
ed before him, and he went in among them
rge.
 long time on the journey; a long time i
nd saw his honoured parent about to wren
aste of wine, or of anything but black b
It was a long, grieving sound, like a si
d into the air like spray.
 could have put out its hand and touched
pute in Paris. I had the honour of knowi
"I speak, miss, of twenty years ago. He 
ion      Chapter V      The Wine-shop   
our expressions--as his eyes rested on t
lifted to his face, he saw a sudden doub
c streets? Is there--tell me thou--is th
n you are in communication with another 
th his eyes, as he stepped backward from
id the Doctor, breaking silence with an 
 I would almost sooner have seen the dea
eet, that it seemed as though the very m
ople it. Walking between her father and 
sort, in story, whose periodical change 
 room with a chopper, saw, chisel, and h
the barges were stationed in which the s
zen; it is a thing to regret."
e buffeted and tore her face; but, Miss 
ss much nearer to the lower Angels than 
 saved him if it had been looked to with
own, to refer to whom however unworthily
rt of either of the brothers, in all the
ly a week afterwards. You know it is a c
"Extermination."
to the coach doors and greedily stare in
ass to worse news. Darnay has been arres
l storm. I released her arms, and called
ere all standing open, and would suggest
road might be a robber or in league with
 As to its being a disorganised city, if
u had been drinking."
 case of the worse, to convey to him the
idence. He had now to attend while Mr. S
t of reluctance and hesitation on that f
r, with heavy stone balustrades, and sto
ere here?'
 forms their dozing eyes and wandering t
ter bread to such extent as he could, wi
In crossing the bridge, she dropped the 
"I know the fellow."
careless and slovenly if not debauched, 
eing done in the garret; for, with his b
the Holiest of Holiests to be thrown ope
 like a boat towed astern. As the boat s
cked, and, with much splashing and floun
ed. He was well acquainted, more-over, w
xpress sent after him, and the real mess
sensible figure, putting the paper in th
ended. There was the usual stoppage at t
th his lips, he murmured some words. The
isfied with it, and it should be what it
 you here, the greater hope there is for
eadily, but the intelligence had a palpa
ed, so changed, so sudden and unfair, th
Jerry hoarsely professed himself at Miss
where. It is little to relinquish. What 
, and passed lamenting up the stairs, an
wounded soldier creeping back to conscio
said; Miss Pross could not hear him. "So
of his valet.
arrassing our heads concerning others. _
a certainty impossible for handmaid to a
h! and good wine. I drink to the Republi
 Truth:" holding that Man had got out of
 was in every separate instance, Mr. Cru
ion for cheating at dice? Something to t
uld she have gone to it with any softer 
"Can't be helped," said Miss Pross, shak
est tradesman, am able to provide a litt
ves, if that be so," Sydney Carton struc
 hope that I could tell her the name and
eamed trenchant in the morning sunshine;
his lips once more, and went away. So, t
ear ones, depended on his quiet fortitud
truth. And it was such vapouring all abo
ery turned with success, and whom they s
 any stone face outside the chateau as t
stic who raised the Devil with infinite 
k to him affectionately.
 any emotion that had pain for its found
ee had had the hardihood to propose to a
and misery, to turn it grey.
k, and any other party distributing a Pr
nking, anything else, until he was clear
plundered to that degree that when we ch
ter, in their idleness and hunger, so lo
; a wondering that was more like the won
member. It was so very long ago."
uman creature at any very great pass, co
was something very voluble and loud, wou
arsad, was a hired spy and traitor, an u
ise!" exclaimed Mr. Lorry. "You wish you
Many a night and many a day had its inma
 based on the work as long as all refere
thrown up to the sky, and his head hangi
 It's a dreadful remembrance. Besides th
d it is the nearer ended."
lf."
ce of my life was reposed in your pure a
e night. The prisoners were far from ins
 due."
e light of the coach-lamps but these its
 in which our books and papers over yond
 the guard, and from the guard to the co
oncourse that saw it done, than the crow
ms formerly belonging to the apocryphal 
"There are two other points," said Mr. L
king, and thence to the plundering of pu
ds upon pillows at all, unless the priso
mbled with his cap, and made a bow.
sion of Miss Pross's face, perhaps a sud
d the mender of roads, on tiptoe and in 
ing a light. There, with closed doors, a
you."
 few leagues behind Monseigneur, early i
s King's Bench familiars, who were occas
"Like these in shape and size?"
 gone in the general direction, recalled
Book the First--Recalled to Life
surer than it is henceforth. In the hour
 Bank. Spirits are supposed to haunt the
is by that time; and the shadow was exch
 unless I could be useful; I present mys
-shop open, without thinking. All we thi
ergerie?"
into a poor weak stain. So sunken and su
ween him and England. The universal watc
would have sustained me."
ing, with his mind much disturbed; "wot'
 spoken. The confidence is not of my see
nd it needs a counterweight."
e, though he were dead, yet shall he liv
bably would not have stopped; carriages 
Jacques Three demanded how he afterwards
"Nor have I."
ho had not removed his gaze from the sho
r handsome visage; eyes dark, face thin,
he speaker seemed to acknowledge that it
tor's chair, "even of this distress."
 of husky chips of potato, fried with so
d cognac, and a mouthful of cool fresh w
Defarge held darkly ominous council with
re sound of his daughter's voice, and in
 distance, fired by the four fierce figu
? Look at him. Look at me. Is there no o
lder his way back to the robing-room. An
riosity, but out of zealous interest."
the Marquis ran his eyes over them all, 
ns, the workmen came upon an old dungeon
 and otherwise beautified and beautifyin
 pitted its gravity and longevity agains
on his, in pointing out the road. The En
nceforth, nothing but some extraordinary
fate--for I cannot write--and if I could
es," murmured Defarge, to him who had in
 coals at the Royal George at Dover, now
o injured by the two Evremonde brothers,
with his head on!" Mr. Stryver remarked 
y, he walked across the room with a meas
e, he said, drawing it back:
al he looked, with a hand on each knee, 
he like, open country, avenues of leafle
nd half next day, until I met (as I was 
ntent to deduce from look and manner, wh
ch he had no need to dwell, that the cro
n in wigs: not far from a wigged gentlem
ry crimes that could be committed under 
p these feet far out of her life! For, t
"Emigrant, my friends! Do you not see me
rning to find the same boots covered wit
tools to descend to my cottage down in t
 Darnay.
 turned cylinder; Hunger was shred into 
ars my name. I see her father, aged and 
n the court, followed out into the stree
e Marquis went on with his supper. He wa
e forester? Always the same with you peo
ou or in a hundred like you rather than 
s there any sign within their range, tha
Monsieur Gabelle was the Postmaster, and
wly.
eir furniture to upholsterers' warehouse
d prisoner in the Bastille; that, one of
e. "Almost."
rom the ghastly, fire-charred, plunder-w
ched their ragged shoulders to keep the 
s true to the purpose as his heart was, 
f his personal board.
me three years, or three years and a hal
the French language and literature. He h
her moment, and the voice replied, "Yes-
y say no more about it. I tell you, I re
ank you again for allowing me to sound y
uld save Lucie's husband at last. Yet th
the high grass and cracked the branches,
ervant came into the room where I sat wi
you remember," said Darnay, with a smile
"I willingly obey the orders of my Chief
ouse in this small place had been such, 
een the drops of pity kissed away by her
 angry at being spoken to--and bent over
 of whose chocolate for whose lips had o
 wounded boy upon the ground was my sist
per preparation; "they said he was not a
ll eyes had been turned before, and were
ch heads of information concerning Docto
k you," answered Mr. Lorry, with meeknes
private apartment of three rooms: his be
e House came with its hands in its pocke
"This property and France are lost to me
ound, like a sigh--almost like a sob. It
in the disappearance of the high caste, 
te of things that had utterly exhausted 
the cares of other people; and perhaps s
With a deprecatory grunt, the jackal aga
returned the answer in great trouble, an
h you."
ther, is it not, my little citizeness?"
tore him so soon, I should have great ho
e seen our sister-women suffer, in thems
he lifted his foot to put back one of th
s place with her as she grew. The little
on, did require his making those passage
had at once supported him under his old 
-"a prisoner?"
me--Well! This is idle talk."
he room.
 that were wanted were purchased every e
ose quick eyes had never been so intent 
That's good!" (Though his manner was les
is danger of his giving warning, and the
ticeable, so very powerfully and natural
 were found the ashes of a paper, mingle
ther eye in the crowd, and gleamed at it
ore now. It may be that I shall yet stan
tron; "you are a good boy!"
m of La Force. He could now assure Lucie
Books, unless you receive specific permi
tral states between sleeping and waking,
, and as there are Life and Death in the
made a show and a noise. Say! Would you 
 and it stopped him, for no voice could 
end him my Soul with it!"
e lattice blind outside it, and he had c
e estrangement between them had come of 
kewise. That warn't your name over the w
serene, illustrious, excellent, and so f
ble, and let me go mine. I am busy. I am
 the Evremonde people are to be extermin
 Examination where this old man, ugly an
ed--and gravely--by the Citizen and Citi
favour in it, won his own private place 
ht shadows within. The real Banking-hous
king; twice, he went aloft, and the rope
Tst! Yah! Get on with you!"
, and had given information. He had neve
The Doctor had taken care that it should
to his window as if that were ruled for 
sed approval as was to be desired in the
ueen, the court, the clergy, for any tid
t one affectionate word to me, and tell 
tocrat!"
ress; "and so it was for this, my sweet 
ese had been oiled and oiled, until the 
The quiet lodgings of Doctor Manette wer
t Antoine was on high-fever strain and a
ile many were at the fountain, washing l
 sound proceeded from them. By degrees, 
clock; you are going to see the batch of
d the mender of roads, softly, and with 
g in life!" Darnay rang. "Do you call th
nd England for a long time to come."
 himself to impart that secret brooding 
ain!" exclaimed the gaoler, left with hi
omer was not without his reflections the
ette held me at this moment in her innoc
ould not but see how used the people wer
ed large fortunes, and it was remarkable
 doomed man, that the denouncer was a we
rge had had in keeping.
returned Miss Pross, "but better. Yes, I
 pipe.
erty confiscated and made national. What
again, I have a strong impression that I
ncy in the brave little breast? A shadow
 was before her, but she had laid it dow
Out?"
he Doctor's rooms, he was stopped by a l
joy-ringing, for music; not to mention h
this stone. What is that in your hand? A
"Sydney," said Mr. Stryver, on that self
 who were full of eager attention to the
A citizeness of France?
hat's true."
ever shone, past hideous doors of dark d
 to the axe to-morrow, would she have go
on. After standing with the bridle over 
sion, and finally his own. A gaoler, wit
flowers grew, and the hawthorn blossomed
o you, or if my marriage were so arrange
ot call to him; he regards me like a dea
ower, and be worse."
pe," bursting into tears, "I may not rep
e, saith the Lord: he that believeth in 
He had time to finish these letters befo
d!"
orner, "what do you want?"
n the form of embracings all round, goin
 true to the death."
ormer; "our arrangement thus made, you h
ver the world, and he cultivated a taste
What proof had he of this?
bad deeds and bad reputation of the old 
s an escape possible," said the spy, fir
ne, what have you done, that you should 
 than I was in the souls of both.
r Manette was there. She was there, sitt
ng the whole night behind him dreadful, 
! Is it likely that the trouble of one w
ains, and then it ran, by many eccentric
aught them up to the ceiling, and waved 
eauty. And now I'll have no more drink; 
 make his voice heard:
nly," said Defarge. He had had it convey
an rent the hall. So capriciously were t
of some wild rejoicing, and a festival. 
story of your regretted father. Now come
 will be true to you with all my duty an
ral and unimpeachable.
"Ye-es, sir," returned Jerry, in somethi
numerous medley of men and women, not to
sping his head and drearily wandering aw
y eye for all gregarious assemblages of 
To Mr. Lorry, the Doctor communicated un
 start to himself, and lower the window,
r was in shadow, though not in shadow so
ose out of the condition of the time. Si
 her eyebrows by the breadth of another 
he is retaken."
 considerations of present danger as aro
ing on the efficacy of cold immersion in
 can ask Him of Saint Antoine here."
n in gossip. Gradually, these strings of
 there sat, in that corner of the Judge'
wly turned to the looker-on, and I saw i
"Yes, sir."
and this earth's together. Haunted in a 
"I believe so."
--where, indeed, some carriages of Monse
As soon as they were established in thei
r instance, the privilege of filling up 
fferings, insults, and wrongs! Armed men
f stone colour.
ng."
and's cheerfully." He faltered for an in
r IX     The Gorgon's Head      Chapter 
, and stopped to dance about Lucie, some
"Project Gutenberg" appears, or with whi
k. Thus engaged, with her right elbow su
He gave his arm to his daughter, and too
 to impeach the justice of the Republic.
under his head, lay a handsome peasant b
s into sores. Stooping down beside him, 
he grave. His mother had died, years bef
 Carton, dictating, "'the words that pas
ney. "I lighted on you, Mr. Barsad, comi
"I don't understand you," said Mr. Lorry
"Good day, Jacques!" the spy repeated; w
answering chorus of "Good day!"
, without doubt, to have led some person
"Or both," said Darnay.
height from the ground. Mr. Jerry Crunch
y, beamingly adjusting his little wig, "
ulder against the wall, where it shivere
g the people up and exterminating them f
"No; I am going to play backgammon with 
Leisurely, our four horses are taken out
"Now, what I would humbly offer to you, 
death of the city settling down to its s
itish cough on Madame Defarge; but, neit
 another man in a corner, and rose to de
mes, once for every stroke of the bell, 
 Frenchmen an English superstition which
 but, still the deep ditch, and the sing
let walked by the horses; the courier wa
bind you yet more tenderly and strongly 
ance, to plant the stool in the shadow o
, eleven?"
ys pricked up his senses, and became exc
, and what is the nature of the case to 
 an eye and a hand on the arm-chest befo
apers, looked for their names in lists o
"The Records!"
ul sound, as of a great storm in France 
 for sale. Hunger rattled its dry bones 
nclosed a little here, it clenched the t
 place twice over? Thank Heaven, no. A v
ollow the husband and father."
I thought you would be; though, to be su
 not prewaricate to you, sir), let that 
for presently she heard a troubled movem
a common dog, so struck at him as to mak
 it beforehand," said Mr. Lorry.
They travelled in the night, halting an 
dropped upon her father's breast, he was
ht, halting an hour or two after daybrea
nd then came the ringing of church bells
"Oh! I remember. Very well, very well."
e, it was so impossible to forget that m
d stared at him.
th natural sorrow rising in him for the 
unce him."
faster and faster, more and more steadil
d them, were looking stupidly on, or lyi
ate, caused the doors of the Holiest of 
e shall not see the triumph."
imagination could record itself, are fus
ring until the touch of pity could make 
s impressed as an additional ornament, b
Pross, "and you may depend upon it, I'll
He put her hand to his lips, and moved t
Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with 
em out, mobbed the two vehicles so close
rkman with an unfinished shoe upon his l
rrow as to-day. But it may not be so. I 
 little way, and allowed Mr. Jerry Crunc
ther too extravagant and impossible to b
s, than to look out of Tellson's. He was
anner of the people at the Paris fountai
derstand these perplexed distinctions."
"I do," said Miss Pross.
ay?"
ated his wife; "and when is it not a lon
ack, I might be able to do so much; unen
ew of him--stood a-tiptoe, got upon ledg
hatically a fallen sport--a something, o
"I am going to tell you how. It will dep
eur her father, and herself, her husband
art to you, last of all the world; and t
tongues, and looser lives; all totally u
France, of my own will?"
ave quite enough of that," said Miss Pro
s it is in the fever of one patient. Now
e a disagreeable fellow."
how long it takes to prepare the earthqu
d what portended the swift hoisting-up o
t of the common way. In the midst of the
 have brought you off with honour, Mr. D
!"
uillotine, all daily brought into light 
the road. He had heard of Monseigneur, a
, to put a case and for the sake of illu
manly action, but the hand made no respo
the gentle craft to have, all of a sudde
As the rider rattled down the hill again
r. Lorry's pockets. They returned home t
 and charitable donations in all 50 stat
"I told you you had a remarkable face, M
isadvantage. These little instruments of
y in considerable doubt and mistrust. Th
fidence and approval, and then the man w
tness.
 them: not there. He looks into the seco
one of your declaring on water. When you
bony fingers had been still, the stomach
ines of black and stone colour.
Now, that the streets were quiet, and th
e unlucky by _your_ sneaking. If you mus
r quite so easy a smile under the stare.
Y, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTR
y went down-stairs and out in the street
sed to speak, that Darnay felt his own h
 head from his shoulder as you have it n
you would have no duty but to sacrifice 
re until all was well, or unless I could
morrow, Mr. Barsad?--"
h the sun, the other ever tending eastwa
 I had the honour of being passed on the
 be worse than useless now to inquire wh
ect no sign. They had lounged away in a 
r father's breast, as she had laid his p
Three, as he read greedily.
lood was up, and the blood of tyranny an
ctor was thus steady and confident. So m
nomy, that, whereas he often came home a
 full of vehement agony of action, with 
 as it splashed the river-walls of the I
ttage down in the village below, where i
y say that petitions have been presented
ished in the massacre; every human creat
Before he went away, he breathed a bless
g to hold fast by what Tellson's had in 
paid the price."
"Make the best of it, my dear sir," said
nfiscated. For, all things moved so fast
 and deepened, and they both lay quiet, 
ve like wonders hidden in our breasts, o
f customers, and Monsieur Defarge said t
ting with her knife. "See the old villai
"Now, as to the future," hinted Mr. Lorr
 home one evening:
 prisoners had been in danger, and that 
people then paid to see the play at the 
ck cap pronounced his own doom as certai
're a nice woman! What do you mean by fl
ble trembled in the silence that followe
ssisted off with mutton pies and ale. Th
Lorry, and laying a soiled and unopened 
 All else was so quiet, that the flambea
"And you have observed, my wife," said D
ore he could utter it. But when he did f
"What the devil do _you_ do in that gall
against the door-post, knitting, and saw
with his tattered blue cap pointed under
e, covered his eyes thoughtfully and dej
bridge, massive stone walls, eight great
is made for this, it will one day be req
and your return will delight us all. She
o forget that many as blameless as her h
 was easy to surmise where the good old 
e, I who have seen you together from day
e to forget it."
 citizen's letter, which had been taken 
y which had lain dormant during the cess
 I and my sorrows are dust.
ial to her perfect happiness, I will giv
 who were to be tried, rescued him from 
e found her child and Miss Pross with he
 usual genial position that the guard su
n't say, if you can't."
the Dover mail, as it lumbered up Shoote
 The gaoler standing at his side, and th
face and hair, he would suddenly fan awa
e purpose, as that he made a short call 
land."
y white. A hundred times the dozing pass
he second of the three, addressing Monsi
 far away, and the first spray of it in 
 their scanty measures of thin wine and 
out which you have your theory."
"You?" said the Spy nervously.
ly by his name, and spoke to him on topi
valuable objects may be saved from the f
 Mr. Stryver shouldered himself into Fle
His manner was so fervent and inspiring,
said) as that he could be mistaken.
were wrapped to the cheekbones and over 
he coffin out, when some brighter genius
It would have been difficult by a far br
sinking heart, as he left all that was d
or.
 shoulder him into it, "your way is, and
ne to-night?"
of great determination, of that kind of 
, if it suited his pleasure and convenie
as a refugee, and it was much too much t
 voice too, as he answered:
en days a week.
read as I go, I make a circuit by the pr
_ daughter? We have lost many privileges
ction our customers. He was a French gen
rnay, that the secret of this name shoul
rce!" and a thousand answering shouts.
ose bread I have eaten these sixty years
if it were in a state of agitation. The 
"Thank ye, my dear. The precious child i
during which they all looked towards him
 no. Swear that? Over and over again. No
bewildered head, Darnay sat down at the 
er pass me on the road. When I took the 
d. Shall we terminate our conference for
f last night, and his promise of last ni
y closing the little procession. They ha
rang in Charles Darnay's ears long after
lieve it is the truth?"
 jaggedly all over it, and growing down 
aid."
in the act of bowing, and were popularly
, is within the power (without loss of p
arge a fee or distribute a Project Guten
 the time came; a desire gigantically di
. The hollowness and thinness of his fac
o tears. "Have I ever been so hard with 
in his mind.
ed; he had come out with great obsequiou
l satisfaction. Do you go with me to the
iritual revelations were conceded to Eng
all things fitted to it. A narrow windin
and those of the said French Lewis, and 
d would suggest the flight. Her first ac
 the governor's body lay--down on the so
ulon alive! Foulon who told the starving
he feeble over-swinging lamps.
"Doctor Manette. My dear friend, Doctor 
"Surely."
urse in reserve; which was, to have a ce
o you, like Evremonde!"
tention, he drew the key across it, thre
nner, before he departed, that he looked
an she had been.
d-bye into our lives."
 a grave interest; and stood with his ha
that I should have done him any wrong. I
is was administered to the lion in the s
ike this!"
ed-chamber to be lighted. It now shone b
g Rip? This boy is a getting too many fo
th a bumper for his throttle, and a fres
aving washed and changed to refresh hims
racked the brother here, and last night 
ark obscurity of one of Mr. Lorry's pock
s were audible there, though subdued by 
at deal more to equal purpose; neverthel
t space for this legend. He had got some
energy, and laid one of them on the carr
he church bells, then ringing pleasantly
"About."
 in Warwickshire and thereabouts, even T
nd reasons that will tell as such with t
gree to indemnify and hold the Foundatio
ht are all that are here."
h and through. Hatchets, knives, bayonet
g them into grave-clothes for the prison
ange of the two instruments, and turning
ratitude or respect, of no human creatur
egions, seemed to be blowing the edifice
"I devote you," said this person, stoppi
*** START: FULL LICENSE ***
n us, Miss Manette, and I see them--by t
"Afraid?"
 fortnight, while you are in Warwickshir
ter a short silence on both sides, "to w
g; assuredly not much past twenty. Her h
he favourite), Republic One and Indivisi
"One cloudy moonlight night, in the thir
and highly to its own satisfaction.
rough my mind--I were dying too.
a hackney-coach, I'm as sleepy as laudan
s coat off, and let it drop on the floor
t know why I did it, in the second. Mr. 
yment of his dues, that he had relinquis
, Mr. Lorry, and Miss Pross--to whom the
onic work and you do not agree to be bou
walked in your direction. I walked into 
u speak of it in that way, that it was m
 Jerry:
 is walking up and down, walking up and 
is own, long forgotten or long concealed
 laid the letter down so close to Darnay
"Who took him out of it?"
g to pieces at the larger joints. As oft
The half-dozen who were peering at the c
etofore the Marquis, and for which I sha
adlong, mad, and dangerous; and in the y
deed, it was rather the better for the p
s arms, as He took the child of old, and
 said Mr. Lorry, reddening, "that I will
orld that we know, consider the faces of
, when he rang the door-bell of the tran
 at the top. There, as it had an abrupt 
lf, with a pale face and in a faltering 
ving Lucie; you may be satisfied of it."
ld have undug--if it wos so--by diggin' 
e. I feel certain of it. There! Bless yo
ted, when he had done so, whether he was
near home.
rds that when he bent down and touched h
alled out again with a most unearthly cr
t light one of the carriages of Monseign
d her voice and called out, "Citizen Doc
erformance; in which he ought to have be
ed into a large dark room, at a distance
o be an infirmity attendant on perfect o
t be much out of the way, to take me in,
 bear it. By degrees, as they could bear
 emulative of the noble and chaste fashi
prise of your visit," explained Monsieur
nd smoothing her rich hair with as much 
he reception; he had stood in a little s
the Cross. Models of it were worn on bre
eserve free future access to Project Gut
 masses of stone and timber fell, the fa
rry.
in the vaulted chamber where Darnay had 
dered that he could think of no locality
"It would be ungenerous to affect not to
. Was he the only passenger who came on 
 The carriage was then so far in advance
. In the breast of his blouse he carried
is life, to the seamstress of twenty, wh
e at Dover, now a good many years ago. H
 enthroned on their distress. The ragged
m your Rome, you know."
e faces changed, from faces of pride to 
, to sip, before the wine had all run ou
rilled him with a great dread of discove
" With a sigh of great compassion.
e myself, during the journey, under that
amps--swinging ever brighter in the bett
"Hark!" he exclaimed. "Whose voice was t
aid Mr. Cruncher, surveying him. "Him an
 round the wine-shop, took up her knitti
s lying back on his sofa, winking at his
uilt up and forgotten. Every stone of it
(though never by the Doctor's hand), but
ok on and hear. "More than that; Monsieu
Madame Defarge made at the door. Miss Pr
: which he did, holding his breath. Crou
ld trial with forces to which they both 
riod. Unencumbered with luggage, they wo
ong and dark, was gathered in a ribbon a
"
 a floor, and, the doors by which they c
Mr. Lorry came silently forward, leaving
tolerable fair. The tide will serve pret
lord to the lowest stable non-descript, 
."
leathern strap, and speculate upon the t
 but admit to himself that he might not 
might otherwise run me down, a head was 
cried Miss Pross, still wildly crying, "
at once was sweet music in your ears, we
 to elicit a word of remonstrance from M
old reputation, and its revival in the f
olour.
er their eyes, now flung backward over t
 little innocent gallantries and politen
iness gravely. When they took a young ma
in a low voice, "Not at all."
ct the other way-- in short, the period 
xiety to avoid reviving old associations
able of his own help and his own happine
Barsad, or Solomon Pross, walked at his 
 might hold with her; as if--the thought
e himself gently for sleep, that hot sti
nd streaks of sky which were responded t
The wood-sawyer, who held her in the res
e street while this wine game lasted. Th
u would, and are less mercenary on my be
e posting-house, and all the taxing auth
arms, and went away caressing him. I nev
o it, or you will always be disappointed
 man's, I believe."
Miss Pross was a pleasant sight, albeit 
 the courier was audible, trotting on ah
etters of a certain size, at a certain c
lf."
ain.
 passed out at the same gate, and had fo
 head over him as he reviewed him in the
runcher replied; and looked surprised by
here he lay down, but I wish you to know
Defarge.
"Doctor Manette," said Mr. Lorry, touchi
here was no one watching her. In one of 
e-works, tanneries, and the like, open c
timely reminder to Darnay that this disa
done.
ect Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any othe
hen Samson held them up." Ogre that he w
ccount of cruel rage. No man can decide 
try, and couldn't bear it, and had given
ht answer does not help me to forget it.
eneral public entrance to a great pile o
 finger on me!"
On the steps of a church, awaiting the c
ks are often created from several printe
, I suppose."
nt air of listening, at the floor on one
DIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCID
n the streets were filled with people--h
as I bent mine to them, and we parted wi
telligible to you, because you are such 
r father, she would burst into the grief
s, I offer nothing."
e stirred by some perception of inconsis
 until midday. It was high noontide, whe
 of the Bastille. There, against an angl
 pipe-smoking, song-roaring, and infinit
The pace was suddenly checked, and, with
id a fee for obtaining a copy of or acce
 the fourth day of his absence. So much 
mind.
 Mr. Lorry began.
aughty in manner, and with a face like a
Within a minute afterwards, he was, to a
It was but the inquiry of his first conf
stood before him face to face, quiet, in
They shook hands upon it, and Sydney tur
erm, in that Quarter, near the Banking-h
ffice until they bowed another customer 
carecrows in the rags and nightcaps else
in the United States.  If an individual 
a child, a pretty boy from two to three 
"I never see the night myself, master--n
 knitted brows, and looking straight bef
 A little fishing was done in the port, 
r two of the plain and the fair faces, t
, was not there, trying to do something 
 No man ever can have been more desirous
?"
to-night, I shall make sure that you've 
 dark room here, and let us have one fin
and kissed them to him; then clasped the
ts to control and steady his breathing s
 the external architecture to look in fr
say that he was unexpectedly found at hi
se altogether; therefore I am no more an
"Take you my knitting," said Madame Defa
-"
ays wos in the Old England times, and wo
at nothing could be better. Miss Pross's
quite as shrewd as you usually do think 
ace. I have observed his face to be not 
than usual, before the shoemaker replied
*****
"Any person mentioned?"
The man moved a little further away, as 
 is a registered trademark.  It may only
, "A last word, Mr. Darnay: you think I 
nt on his work, and that his hands had n
he knew about them), opened before him, 
ful that the time has come, when I can p
work on which the phrase "Project Gutenb
mouth, and was in danger of suffocation.
ous mother, you have, my boy: going and 
fresh complexion who has got to the end 
f these circumstances he had yielded:--n
od up, not to miss a hair of him; people
This dialogue had taken place at Mr. Lor
lf.
ase to their rooms. There, he laid her d
 curious to me; perhaps, to your better 
ore his hair, and beat his feet upon the
"No."
ry shadow on the road.
r. Lorry stood at the open window, looki
ot yet up with them, and the men at the 
Customers entered, and the group was bro
n, and stopped.
ng. It stood before my disturbed sense o
ng, and infinite caricaturing of woe, th
"Hah!" said the Marquis, glancing round 
"My dear!" said her father, stopping in 
Foundation (and you!) can copy and distr
slowly and laboriously made a place of c
reeping through some rank grass! and all
shoemaking time, yet?"
, they would appear. Troubled as the fut
 her protector, though they had been all
fancy wandered through the mind of the p
 Mr. Barsad."
him eat it now!" Madame put her knife un
houlder, and beckoned them to enter. Mr.
"And of me, I am sure," said Mr. Lorry. 
om her."
the shrieks. They continued to be uttere
his to yourself, citizen; he shaved the 
om her childhood with a brooding sense o
 father had attached to their betrothal,
of church bells and the distant beating 
 then, for anything less necessary than 
erate, by her state and by the beckoning
reets grew hot, the corner was in shadow
rnt out, and the day is gleaming in abov
"I am going now, directly."
 express general ironical dissatisfactio
one ever to be known to you?"
u would have cared to stop me there."
gigantically disproportionate to the few
n the brink of the black ocean, ready to
re to come into my life, and my father's
-catch 'em at it! Or, if they flop, thei
d of tyranny and domination by the iron 
ct Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, mo
but that the watching towers of Notre Da
r the case has become too pressing to ad
 stone screen before it, so that the sky
 cost and with almost no restrictions wh
raw mattress. As the gaoler made a gener
he little Lucie, comically studious at t
the delusion into which he had fallen, o
re a turnkey at the Conciergerie?"
onate word, however, with a far more gru
ts in himself, madam, which had rendered
 At length, it was suggested that the le
d from him. He worked, and worked, and w
ts nature to arise of itself, and to dra
d that they were ready with their votes 
s smoking, to explain how he timed the e
o to see him. She might think it was con
there were only one of us, yet never see
l that afternoon on the life-tide of the
rk presently. He sank into the chair, an
denly released by the storm that had bur
aid one of these three to Monsieur Defar
hange you have made in yourself! A good 
 a short grove of feebler and feebler ov
cloud upon you of living in uncertainty 
fidingly advanced to take his, and he pu
 owl in the roof of the great pile of st
and dread had lately passed over him, li
 arrival had lighted a kind of fire in t
ed away.
 at five o'clock in the morning, with my
tendency to be sucked towards the vortex
thirst. Liberty, equality, fraternity, o
"Can it be true," said Defarge, in a low
he assembled devotees of Monseigneur--fo
-Man when I'm quite growed up!"
absence. He had come back, to save a cit
t them all. She then placed herself befo
ematics, was able to calculate successfu
ould have returned the love of the man y
 it. I am sorry to hear you putting any 
d towards Charles Darnay, the same singu
 the decided step of one who remembered 
n and a shilling. Mr. Carton came up at 
On a night in mid-July, one thousand sev
r for echoes; it had begun to echo so re
 a milder radiance over great London, th
who was for turning his horse's head to 
plane-tree in the yard, was the Doctor's
1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR 
ross, "and we shall have a precious time
 by the fountain, there is raised a gall
. My present name, though but slightly c
ey doors were well guarded--except, inde
 well never to breed again. All the wome
put him in his coffin?"
It was put before him, and he drank off 
m?"
essel and smacked his lips.
ctly calm and steady, he sometimes repea
"No."
emand of you the sacrifice of your child
"I mean," said Mr. Cruncher, "that he wa
"If I could hope _that_, my father!--"
d had stained the ground of the narrow s
bly crestfallen.
nt about with muffled tread: the rather,
nnot pay something?"
moved, that tears immediately rolled dow
.
y all moved to one of the windows, and l
"Yes, yes, yes," returned Mr. Lorry, dry
as one man and woman by the idea of ligh
 saw losing cards in it that Sydney Cart
of the ropes with which he was tied--The
ut woman of about his own age, with a wa
ces, reserved, as they wrote upon the ga
"Hush! Yes, my poor sister; to the last.
 France reported himself and his tidings
ntoine."
d words of that woman's, to-night, which
ountry still containing himself, that gr
etched out his hand again, hurriedly, an
 I know you, Evremonde; I saw you before
 worn, or laid aside to be resumed; of t
s there to dismiss! Have I had nothing m
g to-day. Madame's resolute right hand w
ething fiercely: "Answer the questions p
gry man, staring. "Is it a good sign, th
 who, like himself, had been a witness o
little counter, and occasionally sipping
"O you will let me hold your brave hand,
ney, in the matter of those crown witnes
rally so. His yellow rags of shirt lay o
n. Ever been kicked? Might have been. Fr
et it in." (Laying the palest shadow of 
ey to yours. However, let me try. You re
stop?"
so little. Pray discuss it with me; pray
and in the light and warmth of the sun f
u could hardly be invested, in her sight
th a whip. But I, though a common dog, s
and a long winding-sheet in the candle d
 of the family, merited by the manner in
res of his tame birds on our wretched cr
retty lifting of the forehead strongly m
"Of his own necessity. As he was, when I
 large number, as you know), I was insuf
ll off, and a rapidly rising man, and a 
r, he replied, simply because he had no 
ped at once, began again, struck, clutch
a hope that anything in his character or
l quiet dress. As well as the prisoner c
"I said so!" cried her brother, interrup
 mender of roads, grim, rough, swart, st
 imitated by the spectators. Her forehea
"I began to think," said Mr. Lorry, push
 that summons to answer for those things
ontracted dimensions, to be ascended, be
A beautiful landscape, with the corn bri
. Hi forward. Whoop!"
 cold, was wrapped in fur, and had a qua
little worth as life is when we misuse i
ne Sunday afternoon.
"Come!" rejoined Stryver, laughing boast
ou have heard of," said Sydney, "and has
entered, that they tell me there is--and
, why, in these times."
Antoine."
e hours, he had plenty of shouting and w
He was an inquisitive fellow, and someti
n of the German ballad of Leonora?
er weight."
 helpful work for her that my hand can f
ry, bending down his ear, while his eye 
ubmitted before the word emigrant in the
So strange was the way in which he faded
Miss Pross, like somebody at church.
d patriots, the latter far outnumbering 
e with me."
ack, that he looked quite stupidly at Mr
 night with solitary pipes, and did not 
 tidings of my dearest wife--so much as 
of a staircase, and fell downstairs of h
nd. He did not seek it, but repeated the
r at that place. Don't look so horrified
o present himself in Mr. Lorry's room ag
, shaking her head. "But I don't say he 
m, clattered away through the village, a
o sawed the wood, left red marks on the 
 I am well, and your father has       in
 went through the whole performance; in 
y, with a smile, though reddening a litt
," said the uncle, with a fine pulsation
s.
the distance rapidly, but not so rapidly
and waiting there, she thought, what if 
th in me shall never die."
rangements, surely! Thus it was, however
ross, approvingly. "But the question, Do
d been butted into its responsible waist
ight, God bless you, sir! I hope you hav
with fears for the brother who so little
er lord came in, but coughed just one gr
 the way there, in a public conveyance; 
The Gorgon had surveyed the building aga
 of having his small individual fears fo
Loitering on the way out of court not be
self, master--nor yet I don't expect to-
"As he has said it," returned madame, li
fervent letters; one was to Lucie, expla
im, and casting up to sight from the sto
ntly laying his hand on the Doctor's arm
rough this anxious time. The secret was 
 a forlorn hope at the best, and not muc
"You do me too much honour," said the Ma
ded them on his head in a manner hideous
hter. Yes. So commences the new philosop
 her. I know perfectly well that if you 
s are!--perhaps they thought as much at 
y biting his thumb-nail and looking at h
In London, he had expected neither to wa
 ever had the virtue in her, it had quit
y motive too. He was a true Briton, and 
 Manette, emerging from the wine-shop th
business when a boy."
 timid and suppressed woman in attendanc
of which flew up your nose and down your
ng to be married. But not to an Englishm
at barrier at the person to whom they we
ly wandering away into his own room when
 himself; "I don't know you."
and of the others listening to him; of t
 axe, and, as he himself said, nothing w
to join you and your beloved husband, on
fter all these years, who ought to be?"
She moved her hand towards his lips, but
tions of Want. The butcher and the porkm
 and they remained so. The voice of the 
ile it seemed as if Creation were delive
he laid the scrap of paper before him. "
as always on the flow, higher and higher
ompleted at the moment when Madame Defar
. You were always driving and riving and
eat grove of stars.
dth of a county between him and the next
ly one o'clock. Towards that small and g
ured it out for him, took to her knittin
the utterer of a bad note was put to Dea
ers, and such foreigners! I would almost
r, yielded the sensation. Whatever gloss
nd attentive; watched the opening procee
n that," he added, as he tenderly kissed
d his subordinates.
 a remarkable attraction for Mr. Crunche
walk down the hill.
ved husband, on your other fortnight's t
reading as they came along, which stirre
n you brought me in, and I am fainter no
rry for it on your account, and sorry fo
sacrifices from you, without doubt you a
ng shoes.
asurement of time. Though days and night
rance, owned to being a Mother. Indeed, 
onished?"
n which obtains in all such cases, the t
m, addressed him by his name.
 against the world in arms; the black fl
a rate that would far outstrip the faste
ollection.  Despite these efforts, Proje
 back of the chair to lay it on the supp
und the shop among the customers, for an
igatures various in kind, but all deep o
d the utmost remaining strength of the t
utive instrument, before it shall cease 
who had been dug out, and wondering what
n of the three lumps of bread-and-cheese
nutes at a time it tranquillised the fig
father, Doctor Manette keeping his eyes 
and false swearers had rested on the pri
XIII. Fifty-two
on that indeed she never will hear anyth
g street. The hovel of a cutter of wood 
r year. I have seen her married to a man
ensified, that it seemed as though it ha
"Long ago."
ought you here? What is it?"
er who came on board at that untimely ho
ated himself over the hill-side, head fi
ty in such obscurity. Yet, work of that 
To this distressful emblem of a great di
annot touch it; thereupon they laugh aga
o you, if you don't. _I_'m your Rome, yo
she communicated some reassurance to Mr.
is glass. "I have had enough of witnesse
ke and was afoot again, he lingered ther
He lies here, in this corner of the carr
. But then, blessed with the relief of t
se and galling, for old reasons. Upon th
vengeance on them. Chase was given to so
y checked himself, and said: "You may no
 "that you buried paving-stones and eart
 so encouraging, so full of admiring lov
I am deeply interested; that is to say, 
"By his tall figure," said the mender of
"Monsieur Manette"; Mr. Lorry laid his h
ng." He added the last words, after ther
ussion, "that your respect for my sister
Monseigneur gone, and the three strong m
free will, assisted him in the strait of
y, with now and then an indescribable ri
that fanciful resemblance which he detec
o secrecy and spies are of very modern d
 of the Tuileries, through Monseigneur a
d have cast its shadow beyond myself, an
d to its possible consequences. His firs
e loves you?"
e better deserve your confidence, and ha
 father and daughter whose steps he hear
wenty-Two.
 the hazard of his life, darted out befo
d divided between going away that he mig
e to no process. The only response is, t
, and nodded in confirmation.
 it, and folding her mantle ready for la
him. The noise ceased at the sound of he
s anchor from the deep, might have been 
th the charge. I shall be more happy to 
ormation necessary; I do not possess the
ecently occupied and temporarily used. S
Marquis, "to the grandeur of the family,
allen figure. "So afflicted to find that
had witnessed, came to nothing, involvin
 carried his delicacy into Devonshire, a
 accompanied him by corridor and stairca
 and material, that no sorrowful story o
ers; you are ready to bear witness to th
ree, and shone upon their faces through 
, and I am not as young as I was! My tea
s gun, which had long grown hot.
em, the Doctor walked with a steady head
ay."
 of imprisoned widowhood and misery, to 
rmost room were half a dozen exceptional
sed its mark, and completely failed, as 
yment, while the tradesmen hurriedly shu
proaching him, he had been brought to th
bout your state of mind."
to which Charles can sometimes gain acce
re. I knew it would be so; I knew I coul
t you are a devilish ill-conditioned fel
alf's journey out of Paris. He is a good
rned madame, lifting her eyebrows a litt
 objectionable, but were only the more r
tice the two strangers, and fell into di
and, with another deep sigh, fell to wor
n I was there."
to group: a Missionary--there were many 
quested Mr. Cruncher to moderate and exp
following days he remained perfectly wel
er those circumstances even, I do not of
ot unwilling to die, if the Republic whi
. I may use that freedom with your name?
hould be so soon wrung dry and squeezed 
the hands that held his arm. "There, the
"_Do_ you?"
"Yes, Jerry," repeated Mr. Cruncher sitt
 upon it.)
n it, and on all this land."
d a cautionary finger on his lip, Sydney
 money, which I had postponed taking. He
 Cruncher.
nveyance known to that period. Unencumbe
r darling was a pleasant sight too, embr
eature in attendance upon Monseigneur. I
assionate voice; he had never seen a fac
in 90 days      of receipt of the work.
ll do very well. You have seen the worst
"And do you take no one with you?"
blishment was put through the door, and 
n, and the wooden jalousie-blinds closed
tain permission in writing from both the
ls and weapons; but, the cutler's knives
ted to her consciousness save the woman 
e to keep them back, he stooped, and loo
ed upon the trees. Though the earth was 
farge had made all ready for the journey
    Still Knitting      Chapter XVII   O
, he can see it without a perspective-gl
"Truly, madame, I think so. For the mome
fully, and had turned to Mr. Stryver, wh
him like three sheep to the quiet corner
erg-tm License.
e of any idea, that the crowd caught it 
"In a word," Madame Defarge went on, "my
aring; these things became the establish
l with _your_ light answer."
r was the inscription on the baker's she
ret."
 the door, and laid her tenderly down in
"And I hope to do mine. Now, good bye!"
usty back closet where Mr. Lorry sat at 
A moment of profound silence followed. D
enighted mind he had, he said, in a dial
stomers, for any new customer who had dr
tor Manette, "that there had been a stro
e had fallen, or was falling. He remaine
swer from you. I demand to see her. Eith
ner had, for longer than that, been in t
drink the wine. The rough, irregular sto
"Come!" said Mr. Cruncher. "Speak out, y
espective roadside destinations. The mil
int Antoine so shouted and danced his an
tting out of this place?"
llness--the prisoner under trial looking
and you shall not know that, if I can pr
"Yes?" said Defarge.
alf desk enough for him: "I am going to 
of his."
ncher's flopping, never no more!"
"Every drop, Jacques," answered Monsieur
"It is a lady's shoe. It is a young lady
en before. In an unselfish aspect, I am 
"She came out here," he said, looking ab
ne, when a carriage came along behind me
, and struck him blows. You hear?"
the travelling coach, at that very momen
off my table. Keep still!"
 in him a holy determination to examine 
s Bacchanalian flame leaped out of the p
d; but at any rate, the quiet pause was 
Mr. Stryver (after notifying to his jack
re--I could not now touch this honoured 
taring at her.
ise, she remained very pretty and comely
never doubting that he would save Lucie'
blank."
ailed. I implore you not to add your dea
f the day, and feeling his being there w
ld answered her bravely, 'Yes!' I kissed
eshed, and went out into the streets aga
aid the elder, when I went in.
r than our going from here. I feel certa
h the permission of the copyright holder
home, with the dust going on before him 
near to her heart the echoes of her chil
id Mr. Lorry, laying stress upon it as a
e had been seated.
ception of the pain of being monotonousl
 any connection with anything below the 
"Yes, Mr. Lorry."
edistribution is subject to the trademar
and then got up and hurried away.
he coast down, madly. The air among the 
ried the child over, and before the timi
 with a brighter glory on the quiet corn
 to Lucie's husband: delicately saying "
who is dead, you learn that I have to kn
 you are true to the whole of your barga
t character. For the first time the Doct
 be seen to be the carriages of absolute
ouched. "This is Mam'selle!" said he.
eal to Darnay to pause. The latter so re
  The Jackal      Chapter VI     Hundred
aking to him when no one overheard.
ng; then, the rope was merciful, and hel
way.
thought I should have been much the same
presentations, confirmable by the prison
assed in travelling by any straight road
?
in a furtive, frightened way.
saw in them, without knowing it, the slo
ich the owner was closing with his own h
use on its own landing, besides flinging
Section 4.  Information about Donations 
king at Tellson's and knowing Mr. Lorry 
 night when it found them still seated u
y weak state of health. My father was so
"Does Madame go with us?" inquired Mr. L
 her veinous and knotted hands together 
 out. It was the always-vain endeavour t
e man went on. A very few moments after 
ps, of the master. The complaint had som
cess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm L
"It is always as the good patriot says,"
ng too.
 his late client, taking his hand.
staircase alone, having asked no questio
rer under the overthrown system, it had 
small, very dark, very ugly, very incomm
id: "You may not understand the gentlema
y straight road to any true earthly end,
ness of his face would have caused them 
ly. Her dinners, of a very modest qualit
d lines in his own hand, represented to 
 a solitary cell. It struck cold and dam
articular friends promptly hauled him ou
this week annihilated the immature plans
door threw a shadow on Madame Defarge wh
 to this. The more business he got, the 
rles Darnay observed that the gate was h
re ready outside the closed door of the 
"I certainly have seen that."
but must have dropped before it.
He put them, one by one, in the breast o
ne. Sydney Carton drank nothing but a li
inctively altered his tread, as being in
ready use to calculate your applicable t
Defarge, coming out of her short abstrac
y have lost it, to beauty that they neve
d taken his place, and went through the 
inion of her.
 low that it dipped at the moment. When 
"You deceive yourself, monsieur," return
o him. "Father dear!"
ced me to confess that you had been drin
ents, and never to say no more than you 
so the ringing of the great bell of the 
"The meaning, monsieur?"
oats.
re the four blackened walls, and a ruste
ry to say, to death."
inking than usual in the wine-shop of Mo
"
"None. My mind is a blank, from some tim
ven."
ees flourished, and wild flowers grew, a
wonder.
omfort."
age of her life.
"I always observed that their pride bitt
amous name. D--n the fellow!"
"Carton," said his friend, squaring hims
ch to bear; in an instant the barrier of
 whirling grindstone of his indignation,
best," he said, finally resolved, "that 
red, and grim, taking off her darling's 
he posting-house; now, they are turned t
o many little heaps of poor grass?"
hermen of the sea-shore, and that peasan
to the set of the wind, and was soon at 
ehead, he seemed to become conscious tha
bition to study the art and mystery of h
 in the room, and she shut them all. She
bey him on the wital subject of his busi
ds upon their pillows; that, they never 
 population. Some, to the fountain; some
beat his foot nervously on the ground.
 upon her bosom and who bore my name, a 
y. "There are only the usual odours."
 was a flutter in the air that fanned Sa
d over those fine nerves, with a strikin
over; and began his journey. "For the lo
Lucie, and told her that her father was 
vide with Lucie her privilege as your ch
the uncle made a graceful gesture of pro
h Monsieur Gabelle had resolved! But, th
he took it up and looked at it. In the m
u sympathised with the golden-haired dol
etting in of the long vacation. The clea
e; I have kept out of his way. Go you in
pect you to look in to-night. Good morni
House itself, magnificently reading the 
day. We shall mount to a hundred soon. S
 would be easier for the weakest poltroo
ncluding legal fees, that arise directly
n his hand, looked in, merely saying, "F
 and long ago. So entirely had it lost t
 it is but passing the room-door, and th
m, crying:
efarge: "I have travelled certain league
Soon afterwards, the bell at the great g
n very lately.
the wildly shaken public mind. In season
o bear upon the identification. How did 
urteenth of August--he sat up late, and 
uch patients here as his old reputation,
u mean to say?" Jerry added, by way of p
e old; but when it was stirred and broke
hter," repeated madame; "yes, I have obs
"Not to death," said the uncle; "it is n
The old man kissed her, and hurried her 
t for an interview with him, and, surrou
our way is, and always was, a lame way. 
ndaries, were picking their way on foot 
IX. The Game Made
ief of them unable to exist with fewer t
turn, the setting aside of his chair and
d fascinated by the figure on the heap o
work on the hill-top beyond the village,
nd here you see me!"
The turnkey fired the little pile, which
oks. He said not a word, however, and Mi
 armed with national muskets and sabres,
 to begin slowly." Thus, Monsieur Defarg
ked towards him without disturbing his o
bundant than any waste, was music to her
never to be broken any more as long as m
lled that length of self-destruction fro
He rubbed his eyes and roused himself; b
 or two; attendant on the latter prayers
et light enough to work and read, she ha
e still looked at her, and gloomily shoo
every head was prematurely white. A hund
istency as monstrous as anything in this
had become a secret, angry, dangerous ma
"I have looked at her, speculating thous
standing over him with his hand in his b
station, both in the old time and in the
t word to the sacristan who kept the key
cap, striking at the coverlet with the b
 departing? I have walked two nights wit
angry, and petrified. Driven home into t
 upstairs."
f-and-rascal crowded passages below, eve
d be in a Blazing bad way, if recalling 
ramping here and there and everywhere, n
ubstitute for eating and drinking; the h
ned his hands, and extended them outward
. The craving man on the jury rubbed his
ne thousand seven hundred and eighty-nin
honoured in five minutes than even Tells
in the light of the moon, the day came c
e by the prisoner in the Abbaye, that we
ood outside it, in a yellow waistcoat an
Here, Mr. Lorry became aware, from where
 humour of impeaching casual passers-by,
e located also govern what you can do wi
Beginning to be struck by Defarge's mann
ous coincidence that true patriotism was
hat they had not displaced a leaf of the
of their safe arrival, and perhaps anoth
eat trouble, and very slowly.
e doorway of the staircase gives on the 
made and brought home such purchases as 
ion, anyone providing copies of Project 
in which there was even a comforting smi
or his life and liberty. That, in the fi
"My husband. No! A moment!" He was teari
id Mr. Lorry, "that I was right in the c
The coffee-room had no other occupant, t
with hands which at first had been only 
 reasoned with himself that it could hav
dow. The curtains were long and white, a
l known to Fleet-street and the Temple, 
y, "shrouds."
dfully skilful, and that he had never be
om being the better for it in pocket, an
of anguish.
es.
here was no business objection to this, 
d uneasily on his feet, rubbed his beard
"It's plain enough, I should think, why 
nd the forehead of the woman who nursed 
