id Jerry, more hoarsely than before.
ad been idle a long time, and had just p
tice the two strangers, and fell into di
r, sir."
ve-and-twentieth blessed birthday, of wh
, informing me that some intelligence--o
the guard got down to skid the wheel for
guard to the coachman, and listened. The
details of the business, and that I must
s frock, and his loose stockings, and al
 against herself in any of the reckoning
he hill. The horses stopped to breathe a
ur lighter boxes of family papers went u
e town, and thundered at the cliffs, and
een spoken on either side.
t a convivial turn, Jerry Cruncher worri
e hand on his account; and then recrosse
led, until the two tall candles on the t
hapes to him as arose out of the message
ing forms, until his mind lost its hold 
ht were gone.
umbering deal table, a very clean white 
 speak of in a whisper, across the water
answered, shuddering.
inter light from cellars, moved away, to
he youthful occasion of his renouncing b
d the sun rose bright, placid, and beaut
is own, long forgotten or long concealed
ies, took place in the capital itself ev
arge jaws, and those other two of the pl
eet. An unnatural silence and desertion 
 changed, it is too probable; almost a w
ce that Miss Manette had arrived from Lo
-burning candle, and found them safe, an
; Hunger stared down from the smokeless 
His cold white head mingled with her rad
 Jerry. "Barbarous!"
tting down into the road--assisted from 
Mr. Lorry and Monsieur Defarge had made 
 heavily.
"You can bear a little more light?"
its light shining on him, waiting for th
y papers went up-stairs into a Barmecide
elf. I asked leave to--"
t. Samples of a people that had undergon
"_Is_ that the Dover mail?"
versing some two miles and a half of pub
essing."
ty and evanescence of the brisk fire. He
nd water, had no footways, but broke off
ch phrases as "Ah! yes! You're religious
st good in the way of prevention--it mig
 shoulder, took out a key.
heritance, the messenger on horseback ha
stomers, for any new customer who had dr
im off the bench. It had more than once 
her chair again, and, holding the chair-
Such a staircase, with its accessories, 
deal of travelling, sir, in Tellson and 
ou're religious, too. You wouldn't put y
 my suspicion that you've been at it fro
d from the invention of a popular game, 
here," pointing with his hand, "near to 
 for the time. A broad ray of light fell
 with the three passengers shut up in th
e remarked), this is the story of your r
en all day and lain awake and wept all n
 sound proceeded from them. By degrees, 
me was Cruncher, and on the youthful occ
farge said nothing when her lord came in
te: November 28, 2009 [This file last up
 animals are endued with Reason; and the
w heavier and heavier, as he and his two
encloses its own secret; that every beat
m, and upon the grown faces, and ploughe
"Tell monsieur what kind of shoe it is, 
ars sat looking fixedly, by turns, at Mr
en they were opened and shut. Your bank-
arret story was reached. The keeper of t
en's name why should you kneel to me!"
 at the two, less and less attentively, 
nough now; but, at that time, it was vil
for the journey, and had brought with th
d gloomily shook his head.
his son on the question of rebuilding Te
, to run to the spot and drink the wine.
I    A Disappointment      Chapter IV   
 much national boasting. Daring burglari
her's side, and watched him. The darknes
hat must follow all storms--emblem to hu
one long accustomed to obey under coerci
, Monsieur Defarge started and became de
  Chapter IV     Congratulatory      Cha
 that assorted very well with that decor
 nose, "all could be arranged for our le
 by lookers-on up at high windows, darte
 its eminence in those particulars, and 
er little child was born--"
r, shaking himself out of it in chains o
ch was a desert of heaps of sea and ston
ed with mist and vapour, Mr. Lorry's tho
e inn-yard.
e coffee-room, when a gentleman of sixty
"Put it on, put it on," said the other. 
 to the composed and reserved expression
ressed. Miss, if the poor lady had suffe
eeble sympathy and humility, "that you a
Title: A Tale of Two Cities        A Sto
e, who was kneeling to look on and hear.
 the middle of the street--when it ran a
ques. Am I right, Jacques?"
know whether he has been for years overl
im," she said, raising her hand to Mr. L
l I hire a carriage and post-horses?"
t, and the very bones of it seemed trans
o Defarge as if he would have transferre
 that seldom seemed to look at anything,
intelligence--or discovery--"
gures. But the face was in the main one 
th a little crane over it for the hoisti
s, a sudden vivid likeness passed before
o sunken and suppressed it was, that it 
 out for a stroll on the beach. The litt
nwholesome sea might do. It was dense en
"I can't say."
 stooped over his labour.
tillness of the night, made it very quie
o pass in and close upon the dear old ye
ls that he wore in his belt, looked to a
ction our customers. He was a French gen
"I must bear it, if you let it in." (Lay
ght gleamed through the chinks in the wa
ly, very incommodious. It was an old-fas
n."
"Monsieur Manette"; Mr. Lorry laid his h
 this. Mrs. Southcott had recently attai
-legs till I get you on the level," said
"Now, Aggerawayter! What are you up to? 
rembling with eagerness to lay the spect
 connection, ever paid in thrice the tim
and he made his formal bow to Miss Manet
ce.
uses of some tillers of the heavy lands 
t as a matter of business--business that
Jerry, left alone in the mist and darkne
d stumbling between whiles, as if they w
"I want a passenger, if it is."
ney, under that worthy gentleman's prote
"After that there gallop from Temple Bar
!"
ered from the weather that very day, rud
t hand, only while he poured his liquor 
gh the eddying mist, and came to the sid
 were very decently kept. Early as it wa
I make one it takes the form of Lead. So
 instead of being privately disposed of,
 as they passed in to Tellson's, Jerry t
straw his father had been chewing, and c
ry, surprised.
s, deposited on a substratum of cutlass.
were, I won't be took the liberty with. 
of anything to eat. Hunger was the inscr
s called in--was an odd-job-man, an occa
al he looked, with a hand on each knee, 
er of people. In the gloomy tile-paved e
ing open a door of idiotic obstinacy wit
Bailey."
had a dinner, and where, even in the yea
"It's hard in the law to spile a man, I 
he second of the three, addressing Monsi
promise on it of healthy life or wholeso
She did, indeed, start. And she caught h
ife's end. In any of the burial-places o
He looked back over his shoulder, and be
of the shield and trident, rolled with e
se, and he would accost it again.
he wine-shop thus, joined Monsieur Defar
--not him!"
 to you, miss, the story of one of our c
radictory. Sometimes the broken reply wa
arance of satisfaction as is ever to be 
nd large flaps to the pockets, passed al
"He is greatly changed?"
ng else in the garret but a pallet bed),
o light to speak of could be expected fr
small, very dark, very ugly, very incomm
The watchful guard, with his right hand 
ght have been sitting for his portrait.
g yourself, I think, sir?"
no longer within hearing and the night w
serable beasts know the taste of wine, o
ble of restoration--the old inquiry:
eventeen, in a riding-cloak, and still h
hion, and to have on her head a most won
 every wind that blew over France shook 
n that wine too would be spilled on the 
ne texture; his shoes and buckles, too, 
haps not) upon the joker's heart. The jo
 solitude and disuse. It was like the la
 never for his sake striven all day and 
had better do it."
 should be with him!" said the other, in
ved and eternal lights; some, so remote 
y-two      Chapter XIV    The Knitting D
rk had passed: and the haggard eyes had 
nd saw nothing.
de it very quiet indeed. The panting of 
wed thing and another, been choused this
e had been putting on his clothes, "if I
.
ere, sir. The George was in other hands 
 had awaited his breakfast, his mind was
orry laid his hand upon Defarge's arm; "
d on the scene that appeared more natura
d then the hand dropped to his work, and
ttle passing touch of pride.
tice, for anybody on the road might be a
Language: English
er on Turnham Green, by one highwayman, 
kfast roused him, and he said to the dra
ggested.
d turned it as heavily as he could.
 right elbow supported by her left hand,
efarge whispered it closer in his ear, a
uss, his left at the barrel, and his eye
Thus it had come to pass, that Tellson's
 ruined head there.
on to the post. His surname was Cruncher
eath. Is it not so, Jacques?"
pray control your agitation--a matter of
s for the consignment of any one to the 
In his expostulation he dropped his clea
ss, business!"
"Pray take a seat, sir." In a very clear
argument, that some brute animals are en
for, with his back towards the door, and
hose were always left wide open.
nsieur Manette?"
siness charge to acquit myself of. In yo
as the season of Light, it was the seaso
round, and he sat looking fixedly at the
"At that time--I may ask, at what time, 
s shut up in the narrow compass of one l
s joined, and sipped, or tried to help w
erry!"
ange answer, too," said he, at his hoars
portant to the human race than any commu
ching, yet so terrible in the tremendous
business relations, miss; there is no fr
sted there through many lingering years.
ll and you're at the top and be damned t
The scene was Mr. Cruncher's private lod
e by, some pains to drill to the compose
t him, it evidently was for the strong f
"Hooray, father! Here's an early job to 
s me, is Jerry.")
en what you have to do, is, to remain th
n's Bank. He had a healthy colour in his
Take it, monsieur."
as of Beauvais. Like Monsieur Manette, y
His message perplexed his mind to that d
ch could be got up the hill. Whenever th
til you return, and then we will remove 
the dear old year one thousand seven hun
"Buried how long?"
n the Country      Chapter IX     The Go
 means of enforcing her attention: "he h
asured changes on his hands the whole ti
omer who had dropped in while he stepped
ught me to England. I am almost sure it 
o the English Crown and People, from a c
 mother, I might have made some money la
ining. But, as there were not only carri
hough they had.
ow with his hands--to dig this wretched 
ctured as drinking in the wine-shops, cr
cocked-hat like a three-cornered spittoo
 had reached the young lady's ears. But,
"What's on?" he asked, in a whisper, of 
 saw standing to receive him by the tabl
its ribbon in her hand. As his eyes rest
pter VIII   Monseigneur in the Country  
"What is the matter?" asked the passenge
acity (remembering how young and smooth 
r rain of tears, and then it was, "Take 
ace. Whether he knew what had happened, 
less respectable. This was no passive be
"Myself."
work with a sack and a knife in it, terr
o the chalk cliffs, like a marine ostric
rth Tower."
"Keep where you are," the guard called t
n the passions they expressed, and in th
found composure, coughed another grain o
und floor had, in a rather significant m
"Every drop, Jacques," answered Monsieur
ttle roughness in the sport, and much pl
Her look so discomposed him that he stop
nearest it! Something of the awfulness, 
 recollected what they had said to him, 
escape in the body, though they may in t
"Do you make a show of Monsieur Manette?
o the supplementary pistols that he wore
same. How can it be! When was it! How wa
well, no doubt?" said one of the oldest 
ak, and still holding her straw travelli
s by the way to drink, but evincing a te
nto it, all kinds and varieties of men c
ain broken.
me back, as quiet as you leave him. In a
 joints. As often as the driver rested t
, with him, at the--" He dropped his voi
who had bestowed her name upon it.)
apter IV     The Preparation      Chapte
t, sir?" he asked, as the result of that
t, defiance, stubbornness, submission, l
efarge being sensitive to cold, was wrap
 to be dipped in the sea. A little fishi
carried every morning to beneath the ban
member. It was so very long ago."
t be a man!" was Mr. Lorry's breathless 
, now with a great key, now with his han
of a garment that the wind shook. The mi
hree of one name who had been drinking i
again settling the crisp flaxen wig at t
ieur Defarge.
nible at any of the many windows; not ev
Growling, in addition, such phrases as "
at the guard suspected the passengers, t
were sharp and bright, the smith's hamme
t when he did find spoken words for it, 
om-door, and the worst is over. Then, al
r, the door grudgingly turned on its hin
erate, by her state and by the beckoning
d resonance of the human voice, that it 
"I will. I am going to. You can bear it?
 cold, was wrapped in fur, and had a qua
 he was fain, several times, to take off
ting little hand that confidingly advanc
fidingly advanced to take his, and he pu
e seated in a corner. Other company were
desman, wish to know the Bailey."
 were fast decomposing into rags again. 
led into the coach, shut the door, and p
im; then similarly, at the floor on the 
nd we are going there: I, to identify hi
 absurd baskets!
ow the French coast to be seen, became a
that had long been highly objectionable,
voice," said Jerry. "I leave you to judg
es        A Story of the French Revoluti
o unaccustomed and unhardened senses. Ev
d close, and were of a fine texture; his
 Early as it was, on the windy March mor
you will be soon at his dear side."
ieties of men came out of it. Consequent
 short, but very decided. Almost at the 
the Loadstone Rock
nt air of listening, at the floor on one
"That's business," said Mr. Lorry, resum
he level," said this hoarse messenger, g
t desirable to be met, rushing down a na
hitherto remained standing. He watched h
ents, to stem the wine as it ran; others
ing but black bread and death. Is it not
ade this rattle, the passenger started, 
in, with heavier wreaths of mist closing
le was drawn before the fire, and as he 
ame pale lead-colour), and then the hand
arried one slung over his shoulder. His 
e gloomy tile-paved staircase, Monsieur 
me see your hand go nigh 'em. For I'm a 
 dormer shape, was in truth a door in th
pped for drink, he moved this muffler wi
e theme as he rode. "It wouldn't do for 
ide the coach would fall into the train 
ents in laws and customs that had long b
ave declined him, as the most dangerous 
 brisk fire. He had a good leg, and was 
Mr. Lorry took the hesitating little han
nd then the knuckles of the left hand in
these occurrences much out of the common
use the love of my poor mother hid his t
 windy March morning, Anno Domini sevent
a special jolt--nodded in his place, wit
red, and began anew:
rs made small mud-embankments, to stem t
aste of wine, or of anything but black b
kes, and whose young eyes stood close by
lses quickened by expectation.
ver and for ever, when I had read but a 
He lapsed away, even for minutes, ringin
me a call. For, I tell you," here he add
 tatters of clothes, had, in a long secl
ts glanced into it, I have had glimpses 
another grain of cough, and raised her e
urprising nature. I have done my best to
are you up to? At it again?"
ured an answer as if she had repeated it
?
ment.
--business that must be done. Now if thi
 things, instead of standing there stari
ather. Now comes the difference. If your
g people old; the children had ancient f
spile a man, I think. It's hard enough t
al Banking-house by Temple Bar, the real
 at her with the knife, though they had.
ore bent over the shoe. The look and the
 one of the trustees. His affairs, like 
 looking down from his box.
t I should go to France, and that as I a
ong them; nor compressed lips, white wit
on his head with both hands (which was m
he sun. "Gracious Creator of day! To be 
 the white head that bent low over the s
 courtyard, and was the general public e
to Mr. Lorry; "couldn't you tell her wha
ghty, the first letters written to you b
 of house and home. I won't have my witt
ured breathing, he was heard to say:
ffensive.
m, until, having got past the two tall c
 legs, was rather like a larger sort of 
 in a long seclusion from direct light a
ng paper money and spending it. Under th
s the matter! She doesn't notice a word!
dear!"
o any work requiring nicety in such obsc
ourse, the passenger in his fancy would 
ng his surprised spectacles upon him. "I
ellson's Bank in London. I am going to P
elish. There was no drainage to carry of
y through which I pass, is there a sleep
d at Defarge, some long obliterated mark
d clerk; "we all have our various ways o
I    The Shadow      Chapter IV     Calm
Mr. Lorry's feet were arrested on the st
hemselves before him was the true face o
nsive transactions in blood-money, anoth
ur senses in a miserable little shop, wi
nto infants' mouths; others made small m
ehead, he seemed to become conscious tha
yers at leap-frog might have declined hi
my father? You remember coming up here?"
s snipped off diamond crosses from the n
ys. The resemblance was not lessened by 
k. Thus engaged, with her right elbow su
this muffler with his left hand, only wh
rd him mutter, "One Hundred and Five, No
? Look at him. Look at me. Is there no o
as difficult, on first coming in, to see
 at the questioner, before the face had 
bearded chin, and so on in regular chang
hat do you think of this?"
l the spilt wine swallowed?"
y said, still looking steadfastly in his
nd when I was brought to the North Tower
n the wine was gone, and the places wher
tched to Paris for the purpose."
umoured looking on the whole, but implac
. The task of recalling him from the vag
upon it in the mail. As the bank passeng
servant, no old time, rising in your min
 of the message, and took such shapes to
d with as loud and harsh an accompanimen
must tear the sheets to ribbons. At whic
 where the witnesses go in, and show the
ed with the arm looked, not an every day
nd said something. A faint voice answere
 been set down at their respective roads
denly as they had broken out. The man wh
yers."
rned on its hinges a very little way, an
im that he stopped, wandered, and began 
ompleted at the moment when Madame Defar
tores from the street: unglazed, and clo
Master Cruncher (who was in his shirt) t
 sermon under his flapped waist-coat, as
 repose of spirit, and became absorbed i
readth of a line, suggested to her husba
 a coach, and his daughter had followed 
reast, as if she laid his ruined head th
all carry in mine to my life's end. In a
uard, leaving his hold of the door, and 
enger started, as a nervous passenger mi
. The hollowness and thinness of his fac
 odd little sleek crisp flaxen wig, sett
with whom this history has business. The
 could have put out its hand and touched
burial-places of this city through which
e Revolution. But that Woodman and that 
The sound of a horse at a gallop came fa
The last of the three now said his say, 
though they were, eyes of fire were not 
s of mutilated earthenware, or even with
rk, I see?"
here, and, carefully feeling in the pock
lethargy, worn out. She had nestled down
vily, but, by degrees, began to roll and
ng ladies made curtseys in those days), 
ng hours with clean boots, he often got 
losely at it. "It is the same. How can i
is right;" an aphorism that would be as 
er. I don't understand."
hat do you do there?"
.
 cold and wet from the odd-job-man's fee
and the Farmer worked unheeded, those tw
 bent over it again.
t with the lamp, Mr. Lorry closing the l
firewood he was cutting, set it in motio
he was then, so he is now."
dth of a county between him and the next
re, snuffed about by pigs, and roosted i
 out of work. Mr. Lorry had been idle a 
"Long ago."
e action he went astray, and, with anoth
and a young lady, who were seated in a c
 work, so much more like the top of a st
ess that was necessary to be done, and h
thing before us, we were all going direc
 in advance, and always going on the sid
and get a light with tolerable safety an
safe as an Englishman, and even Tellson'
 and had been--oh! twenty years."
g to this appeal, she sat so still when 
, fried with some reluctant drops of oil
m to enter. Mr. Lorry got his arm secure
 and the ship and crew were in peril of 
o his work, and he once more bent over t
g this fictitious alarm, darting in agai
nd they again slid away into the bank an
in the street. The accident had happened
She held him closer round the neck, and 
t (supernaturally deficient in originali
ith less internal deference than he made
 is ever to be found in an elderly gentl
 had an enemy in some compatriot who cou
e people from the market did it. Let the
 would have disinherited his son on the 
e the face had dropped again.
y was flourishing, a matter of fifty, no
French Revolution
lerated the odd-job-man. The house had a
--distinctly in his hearing as ever spok
ut a very little indeed.
o himself and then aloud: "'Wait at Dove
u see, guard. Jerry, say that my answer 
ing dominoes, three standing by the coun
 of time; if his wife had implored the k
ience have taken his oath on the two Tes
eless and lost creature, that a famished
ight be permitted to place myself, durin
s in the earthly order of events had lat
d to the rest of its contents, and havin
darting in again with an undutiful grin.
this is not a voice she ever heard. No, 
"The Treason case."
and be damned to you, for I have had tro
Produced by Judith Boss
"Ah!" returned the man, with a relish; "
s of many other French gentlemen and Fre
A woman of orderly and industrious appea
aves of burning red and golden yellow st
e unfinished shoes. Madame Defarge immed
had laid it down to pick her teeth with 
their fingers. Others, men and women, di
Bar was an old-fashioned place, even in 
, looking out of bed for a boot. "You're
been dropped and broken, in the street. 
 a moving light, from him to her.
lop, Tom," returned the guard, leaving h
g in the mill, and certainly not in the 
es came slowly back, at last, to the fac
siness relations, but confidential. I wa
ellow of Delicacy      Chapter XIII   Th
as not a sigh, nor a groan, he bent to w
les of the right hand in the hollow of t
 and the guard, they all suspected every
Under the over-swinging lamps--swinging 
d so long, locked up, that he would be f
rcely an amount of order and protection 
stead of being counter-prayed and counte
or the strong fortress-walls which had l
scientific gentleman; a man of great acq
t, and a very faint voice responded to t
ell of the law. Take care of your chest 
 stooped over them, after repeated blowi
e.
in uncertainty whether your father soon 
 forms their dozing eyes and wandering t
y is over, and that I have come here to 
d down his work, put his hand to his nec
e dreaded to be asked any question by th
EBook of A Tale of Two Cities, by Charle
or it! Weep for her, then, and for me! G
lack baskets of Dead Sea fruit to black 
 he had lost the habit of associating pl
"I can bear anything but the uncertainty
"Is that well?"
than even Tellson's, with all its foreig
bout your state of mind."
They paid for their wine, and left the p
 this wretched creature out. Got out at 
honoured father, and implore his pardon 
ooter's Hill, as he stood on his own par
 strong-rooms made of kitchens and scull
ood, compassionate sir, for the truth!"
teers fired on the mob, and nobody thoug
on the cessation of the rumbling and lab
 England to be at peace and at rest, I c
he manner of a sleeper that moment awake
"Then be so kind," urged Miss Manette, "
iritual revelations were conceded to Eng
bout, until they rested upon an elderly 
erence. If your father had not died when
"Mr. Jarvis Lorry."
quarters. That's the sentence."
ions.
out at every doorway, looked from every 
y suppressed; nor foreheads knitted into
iseases were bred, that came into court 
a very muddy boot, and may introduce the
leave him with me now. Why should you be
 whirling grindstone of his indignation,
 be expected from them until they were d
age! Business! The worst will be over in
ble; almost a wreck, it is possible; tho
 rustled it, while they examined the sig
ail, where the passenger stood. The ride
ly disposed of, they would probably have
good or for evil, in the superlative deg
rkman with an unfinished shoe upon his l
ing pity, on the flowing golden hair; as
 I may read this?"
 over the well-worn Turkey carpet, suppo
and tended her with great skill and gent
ent God speed, young Jerry seated himsel
nglish one."
"It's the damp, sir, what settles on my 
n sight of three men, whose heads were b
open and fixed upon him, and with that l
 it on the supplicatory fingers that cla
"Are you going to finish that pair of sh
e neighbouring cesspools, and evil commu
st as many wrappers from the eyes of the
conscious inconsistency, "that the worth
ted to the consciousness of daylight, an
n't you be afraid of that."
an active weapon which they flashed at m
"Changed!"
e of the two passengers would admonish h
But, before she could repeat the questio
enting as respectable and business-like 
.
imes unaccountably realised large fortun
 the breadth of another line.
 see him, and where she now stood lookin
h of light from the lamps, and the hedge
he sat. There was something awful in his
"Alone! God help him, who should be with
, after rapping out its messages, as the
ret had been long undisturbed, and his h
The gentleman from Tellson's had nothing
 was put to Death; the purloiner of fort
 high hand. Thus did the year one thousa
etter than address you as a young Englis
his right hand at the stock of his raise
"Remember? No, I don't remember. It was 
the baker's shelves, written in every sm
d them safe, and strong, and sound, and 
tolerable fair. The tide will serve pret
"Who are you?"
. Please to let me know."
under the quaint wig by a pair of moist 
d Co."
 boot-cleaning and his general preparati
 have been a scavenger in the street, if
and secured at that angle for the time. 
n taken to the house of an old servant i
n, if she does. My darling pretty!"
honour of knowing him there. Our relatio
r's private lodging in Hanging-sword-all
akfast rather than ate it, growling over
t ever was, was wrong.
-No, don't kneel! In Heaven's name why s
's bench (there was nothing else in the 
Outside Tellson's--never by any means in
man who nursed her baby, was stained wit
arge, the shoemaker looked up. He showed
stion so hard to answer, that he could o
 the door, and the word was given:
that Mr. Lorry felt it incumbent on him 
ction. It thundered at the town, and thu
hard lives they live, Jacques. Am I righ
The panting of the horses communicated a
and with that last expression looking as
s if I wrote. Make the best of your way.
 my faithful service, I bring back the r
  Chapter XI     Dusk      Chapter XII  
from the ground. He had gradually droppe
than they had been, that she communicate
man altogether, with good eyes and a goo
he coast down, madly. The air among the 
o the houses. Across the streets, at wid
et, and many wooden shoes. The hands of 
he most frightful mercenary crimes that 
oung lady straightway to her chair again
ay, and designed, one might have thought
ey under coercion, he ate and drank what
or was left open."
't be prayed agin, I tell you. I can't a
e wore in long curls, had been hurriedly
and and touched him as he stooped over h
 had an abrupt turn in it, they came all
No crowd was about the door; no people w
, and the mail, were all so heavy, that 
ays      Chapter XIX    An Opinion      
!" he urged, with a moisture that was no
lt water, do you suppose Providence woul
eventy-five. Environed by them, while th
n then beckoned to the young lady, and t
 was blown, and both horse and rider wer
 Monsieur Defarge in the doorway to whic
ght at his bewilderment, and agreed for 
m in its place. He looked at the two, le
nk, than to remain in this city, so drea
tors started forward, but she stayed the
ng not mentioned if they stayed there, s
ng, too; evidently a man of a strong res
rest dear, that your agony is over, and 
sses from the necks of noble lords at Co
t authorities insisted on its being rece
man's voice called from the mist, "Is th
--out of France. Even I, safe as an Engl
could foresee the extent; also, for the 
 low over the shoemaking.
droom, and a barber."
 sought the ground.
my peril be discreet--as he was then, so
orry dropped off to sleep. The arrival o
The door slowly opened inward under his 
 done: the shadows of the night were bro
 Almost at the first word, Monsieur Defa
uch better than I know the Bailey. Much 
runcher, who all this time had been putt
ockings, and all his poor tatters of clo
od that the man sawed off; Hunger stared
 of anyone anywhere at no cost and with 
er, that not a word of it had reached th
The opened half-door was opened a little
"Pray," said Mr. Lorry, in a soothing to
istance of some fifty or sixty yards. It
"Is that all, sir?"
 would have remembered home and friends 
n this respect the House was much on a p
rway, there were growing trees, when tha
ses followed suit. Once more, the Dover 
dy, turned himself about here, and, care
n. Let our good friend here, assist you 
"One Hundred and Five, North Tower."
entleman said in a look to the young lad
me men kneeled down, made scoops of thei
 from her knees in a corner, with suffic
t of the common way. In the midst of the
help for anybody in their absurd baskets
t on the crown, which was raggedly bald,
 ears, and follow the waiter to Miss Man
ht shadows within. The real Banking-hous
alled to him across the way:
wled the guard to himself. "He's hoarser
bstance of the Shadow      Chapter XI   
"Al-ways rusty! His fingers is al-ways r
t in pocket, and I won't put up with it,
ing streets diverging, all peopled by ra
minster. Even the Cock-lane ghost had be
s of more flopping, give me a call. For,
"
"I know this messenger, guard," said Mr.
 a bull-necked, martial-looking man of t
nstrations ceased, as suddenly as they h
It was raised for a moment, and a very f
ouses, in the wretched clothing that hun
shing condition, save tools and weapons;
 some other one, which led, especially a
all trades and professions, and not leas
t seven of the clock on a windy March mo
st of your way. Good night."
 wouldn't put yourself in opposition to 
on cheese, came running into the room in
 You may copy it, give it away or re-use
 closet with a single pane of glass in i
life, love, duty, rest, comfort."
er shoulder.
"Why, yes, of Beauvais. Like Monsieur Ma
ned his hands, and extended them outward
" Sometimes it was staring and bewildere
 for the birds, fine of song and feather
or instance, what nine times ninepence a
rance."
sing the inn servants. "Why don't you go
es is strained to that degree that I sho
ners in the House were proud of its smal
im, there was another current of impress
 extending towards him, trembling with e
*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOO
oming up here?"
 an evil spirit, seeking rest and findin
have business here."
Defarge drew out the key, closed the doo
n and Paris, sir. A vast deal of travell
two steps, and came to your senses in a 
 struggle for the lost wine. "It's not m
dy's ears. But, by this time she tremble
ibbons. At which juncture, he exclaimed,
y, he walked across the room with a meas
city by night, that every one of those d
that although but one kind of man was se
all things fitted to it. A narrow windin
pe of being dug out?"
"It is not often," said the second of th
 across that very Channel, one cold time
lt, looked to a smaller chest beneath hi
"I shall not go to bed till night; but I
full of offence and stench, with other n
ad, which had so particularly attracted 
, growling over it like any four-footed 
ar together--as if they were afraid of b
sought the ground and looked about him i
, where you meditated on a misspent life
always designedly held prisoner. It woul
.
r had followed him, when Mr. Lorry's fee
f three-fourths of the notes in the whol
rnished with tenderer spikes, and whose 
erest to know what they are."
 confused way, like the presence of pain
 of them being handed into the coach by 
ing his head in his hands, that had not 
nder the efficacy of his wife's petition
ation had not loaded it with their intan
"She had laid her head upon my shoulder,
e had glimpses of buried treasure and ot
, it was given in a tender rain of tears
eat the question, he murmured an answer 
d to get a little closer to one another,
 knew that he was free, were questions w
ntlemen and French families, were entire
e and rider were covered with mud, from 
"Oh! they'll find him guilty," said the 
nt up to be dipped in it, as sick people
ho made off with it, was put to Death; t
tiously secreted their watches and purse
Our booked passenger showed in a moment 
"Yes."
orward.
nswer, that they took fright at his bewi
low voice.
, he threw a boot at the woman as a thir
conductor, he drew over his neck the arm
The coach lumbered on again, with heavie
pared for a young lady who may come here
"I was only saying my prayers."
countenance, the darkness of it was heav
 a well-made shoe when he sees one. Show
us passenger might, and was disturbed in
our_ line of business! Recalled--! Bust 
ustomers. These are mere business relati
called--! Bust me if I don't think he'd 
, if recalling to life was to come into 
of the wine-shop, shattered like a walnu
et, the sky was clear, and the sun rose 
that I should go to Paris, there to comm
 for the hoisting up of stores from the 
t."
f haggard eyes had looked at the questio
ght, or Snooks Brothers' might; but Tell
 for breakfast, and the lumbering deal t
ll. Whenever the leader made this rattle
o," the guard mused, "for I made the sam
 creature is constituted to be that prof
ad crept along the wall to a point where
"Is it possible!" repeated Defarge, bitt
eluctant witness at the establishment in
     Chapter V      The Wood-sawyer     
acters) on her fair young face, that it 
seigneur in Town      Chapter VIII   Mon
r seat thoughtfully in the chair by whic
ade it all.
the first of the persons with whom this 
"What did you say?"
ver heard. No, no. She was--and He was--
dame Defarge--who leaned against the doo
e Defarge immediately called to her husb
 implored the king, the queen, the court
rry, in something of a dogged manner. "I
encouraging. I should be so much more at
shing and floundering, a man's voice cal
"As I was prepared to hear, sir."
ter by the door. When he had stood, for 
pty.
 of it was heavy--cold, dirt, sickness, 
"I know Mr. Lorry, sir, much better than
The words were still in his hearing as j
o think"--the curiously roughened forehe
, from which one might have predicated t
on of it, don't heed me any more than if
 sat her down just within the door, and 
o sawed the wood, left red marks on the 
le understood that Tellson's, in a state
, like a Harlequin at home. At first, he
and that as I am an orphan and have no f
part of every one to join some other one
any one, the ability to do any work requ
ge waiting in the open street, he droppe
ds. As if _they_ had any help for anybod
usness of the figure that could have put
awaiting his dinner as he had awaited hi
Tower--ages ago. What is your name, my g
er, in a tone of quiet business confiden
You will leave me them? They can never h
ingular--and she raised her hand, as if 
ed, Madame Defarge, picking her teeth wi
op, in every dead-dog preparation that w
They began to descend; Monsieur Defarge 
r in his ear, and frowned heavily.
nged by his fellow-tradesman whom he sto
 air among the houses was of so strong a
of despair, we had everything before us,
; they remained in the road below him. T
ng shoes.
mes ninepence are, or how many shillings
rt, the period was so far like the prese
Reason; and the team had capitulated and
"I want," said Defarge, who had not remo
Mail      Chapter III    The Night Shado
ck. All through the cold and restless in
"You had abandoned all hope of being dug
ill find him, when you come back, as qui
under his hand, utterly insensible; with
ublime appearance by announcing that arr
n--my wife!"
tood, like a spirit, beside him, and he 
 everything upon it--like an unusually e
 waist-coat, as though it pitted its gra
ely failed, as is often the way with his
nted meanwhile, not only to ease his spe
"Treason!"
 to me, sir?"
 which he always sank when he had spoken
 and want, were the lords in waiting on 
ad, as being in expectation of a drawbri
et it in." (Laying the palest shadow of 
doorway to which he had directed his own
little earth that the learned tell us it
I pray to you to touch me and to bless m
 had been only raised in frightened comp
erry.
d be in a Blazing bad way, if recalling 
oset, where he made his toilet, with a s
 before his own face, and then his insid
on of a drawbridge; and when there was n
e the law to take care of itself. I give
ch had suspended their business, or thei
ed, and so very slow to answer, that the
w, if it wasn't for the pain in 'em, whi
at moment awake, reverting to a subject 
the places where it had been most abunda
cked, and, with much splashing and floun
 he did, methodically, and with as loud 
dy in the neighbourhood could endure a l
 shower-bath of mud from Fleet-street, a
ok on and hear. "More than that; Monsieu
it. If any one of the three had had the 
en measure, and good measure too, or a g
 night were broad and black. All through
have watched the lamplighter, in their i
e emphatic leader pricked up his ears an
d with this eBook or online at www.guten
The prisoner had got into a coach, and h
or thrice upon the door--evidently with 
ard: particularly at those times when th
rself down and praying agin me?"
 toothpick by, kept her eyebrows up, and
he waves that broke upon the neighbourin
hey mused about enduring, or inflicting.
The stillness consequent on the cessatio
nn-yard, from which pale travellers set 
 the side on which she stood. He had tak
ornered spittoon, and over a great muffl
at with piety and one blowed thing and a
Their conference was very short, but ver
r of Tellson's Bank, by Temple Bar, who 
were gloweringly confidential together. 
 have polluted the air, even if poverty 
h, with other narrow winding streets div
There appearing to be no other door on t
the house. He was never absent during bu
"Yes, sir, if the weather holds and the 
u mean to say?" Jerry added, by way of p
vealed themselves, in the forms their do
re sound of his daughter's voice, and in
do you write in the public streets? Is t
ss Manette?"
oom with a measured tread to where the w
garret, and showed the workman with an u
ption, beforehand, that the spot where t
languishing good airs that were left unc
rsionary interest in the straw his fathe
, of his two companions. In those days, 
risoners, and sometimes rushed straight 
 was really there, he laid down his work
 your mother now and then, and if you se
 on her breast like a child.
at it. In the midst of the action he wen
hat I should go across salt water, do yo
g in his labour. His few common tools an
 before him: and nearly opposite another
if I should make a mistake, it could nev
 of Hounsditch, he had received the adde
a menagerie. Towards nine o'clock he smo
e they had the least relish for walking 
orry's attention, and show him where you
bered up Shooter's Hill. He walked up hi
"Yes, sir. Tellson's Bank in London, sir
d listened. The coachman looked back and
ate preserves of loaves and fishes, that
ad nestled down with him, that his head 
ng to the immemorial usage of waiters in
 large, and looked unnaturally so. His y
s and secrets as were known to the passe
and which somebody else, yet I'm none th
In those days, travellers were very shy 
s the expression repeated (though in str
tity of strolling about by night, and lo
to have red hair, and to be dressed in s
" and throwing off other sarcastic spark
ember nothing of this man? Look at him. 
nd raised her eyebrows by the breadth of
When this interchange of Christian name 
and guard, however, in combination, had 
went out. Madame Defarge knitted with ni
er, with sufficient haste and trepidatio
ime was not come yet; and every wind tha
that he feared to detach himself lest he
hen clasped them on her breast, as if sh
on whatever of his having been brought f
 quick mistake, and when I make one it t
 mind to that degree that he was fain, s
h a dull mechanical perception, beforeha
 through my mother's surviving my father
living, and of my mother who is dead, yo
Dig--dig--dig--until an impatient moveme
e windows, by the heads exposed on Templ
     Chapter II     The Grindstone      
"That's quartering," said Jerry. "Barbar
ith a relish; "he'll be drawn on a hurdl
d rider came slowly through the eddying 
If it was ever intended that I should go
oving on his method, and hauling up men 
argumentative smile.
"You remember the place, my father? You 
rds in?"
ere made the dingier by their own iron b
riumphant perfection of inconvenience. A
ing the courtyard he instinctively alter
 building--that is to say, the room or r
andles on the table in the middle of the
asking, miserably, for his shoemaking to
ung lady, and they, too, went out. Madam
done my best to prepare myself, and I na
me, sir."
Fate, to come down and be sawn into boar
ion      Chapter V      The Wine-shop   
ations. The mildewy inside of the coach,
would be happy to see the gentleman from
tion's? Accordingly, the forger was put 
 have a messenger at hand. This is to te
Both Mr. Lorry and Defarge were rather d
u have business before you; useful busin
 the door, and held her, clinging to him
ng his left hand from the back of the ch
much difficulty after a long while, and 
napkin from his right arm to his left, d
iff, black hair, standing jaggedly all o
rtyard close to the left here," pointing
her wrappings, that they gave him to wea
ly stepped with him to the door.
r IX     The Gorgon's Head      Chapter 
 religiously circumwented into the worst
t to his broad, blunt nose. It was so li
ropped his cleaner hand (perhaps acciden
being a Banker?"
ng ago."
hey were even boastful of its eminence i
His hands released her as he uttered thi
eing always assigned to a passenger by t
94 [EBook #98] Posting Date: November 28
of sea and stones tumbling wildly about,
had read but a page. It was appointed th
"So soon?"
sixty yards. It is likely enough that, r
with a scrap of folded rag attached to i
ss upon it as a wholesome means of enfor
u from over yonder. T. and Co."
rbuss, and stood on the offensive.
ost, another dear old institution, very 
ed their way through the thick mud, flou
"You weren't. And if you were, I won't b
 suffering which had gone before it, tha
pressive of people out of breath, and ho
 of a Storm
 whispered.
r XIV    The Honest Tradesman      Chapt
th, had already set apart to be his tumb
t the ears, or point what he said, stood
e of the coach, with its damp and dirty 
 assisted by his fellow-passengers, who 
 See now, see now! The best and the wors
ngs, and a few yards of road; and the re
at Tellson's, the oldest of men carried 
uiet pause was audibly expressive of peo
g attached to it. He opened this, carefu
ill lock the door to secure us from inte
t, weep for it! If, when I hint to you o
lson's, Jerry took up his station on thi
ssing vehicle to keep the cold and wet f
ave you to judge what a damp way of earn
 "Come in, come in!"
ss. The rattle of the harness was the ch
y white. A hundred times the dozing pass
anette to be, for the moment, in some ad
or two long golden hairs, which he had, 
s sacred tears upon my face, and his sob
e of you has already been there, and can
m. A strange thrill struck him when she 
 raised her eyes again, went on:
"For the truth. O dear, good, compassion
("I don't like Jerry's voice, if it is J
flying back against the nearest wall.
y introduce the odd circumstance connect
according to its size. Some men kneeled 
such an atmosphere, by a steep dark shaf
 to catch the tall joker writing up his 
he mist, "Is that the Dover mail?"
"No, Jerry, no!" said the messenger, har
, simultaneously with his coming against
"They ain't worth much, then. Whether or
was. He did it with some flourish of cer
he wants you."
llory, a wise old institution, that infl
leman from Tellson's Bank. Please to let
nto the bank and the grave.
 shortest notice his methodical manners;
h of their valuable stores and secrets a
nd by little and little, he took it up a
 be seen, and that was Madame Defarge--w
; if it had not been difficult to guess 
or; no people were discernible at any of
arer's knees. When he stopped for drink,
ous, for she shied at every shadow on th
road might be a robber or in league with
se pecuniary Mangle."
 and trepidation to show that she was th
y the beckoning of their conductor, he d
nd you--_are_ collected. That's good!" (
teristic, besides being singular--and sh
mire by the side of the mail, as the res
the journey.
 you cannot be afraid to leave him with 
"What," said Mr. Cruncher, varying his a
smirched, his head more out of a long sq
and kissed them to him; then clasped the
om Defarge. And so, under a short grove 
and on.
lanced in a casual manner round the wine
he had merely "asked a blessing."
Mr. Cruncher's eyes seemed to get a litt
 throat, and showed his body to be withe
ment. I have passed from one to another,
ned on the step, half in the coach and h
orse at Tellson's door, who made off wit
on my shoulder, that night when I was su
 cracked his whip, and they clattered aw
bsent during business hours, unless upon
o escape the hazard of originating any o
leathern strap, and speculate upon the t
is on the fifth floor. The doorway of th
only the more respectable.
umbling and labouring of the coach, adde
you choose them?"
fell into Tellson's down two steps, and 
Chapter I      In Secret      Chapter II
that my answer was, RECALLED TO LIFE."
red more natural to it than sunshine.
nd ferocity worthy of Abyssinia or Ashan
r his amiable purpose. Father and son, e
she had been trying to soften the pain i
ay?"
, irregular stones of the street, pointi
 it was, "Take me to her." Sometimes it 
an at intervals, by darting out of his s
he feeble over-swinging lamps.
 Anna Dominoes: apparently under the imp
d not often make mistakes against hersel
erything but his shoemaking did die out 
ood outside it, in a yellow waistcoat an
gular indoor messengers attached to Tell
ath itself, is referable to this. No mor
ecated any praying away of his personal 
k up her knitting with great apparent ca
broken reply was, "Wait! It would kill m
h lanterns, at the guard-house there. "Y
man in the light, and, being recognised 
n old one, too," made his bow, informed 
 Yes, sir. That way, sir, if you please.
is hand, and held out. A joker of an ext
d esteem it highly if I might be permitt
A narrow winding street, full of offence
After some delay and demur, the door gru
p all night at a party which had taken a
ed a trade, in spite of his favourite de
of a bad shilling was put to Death; the 
covered her charge by a regular series o
"Long ago."
arkly defined eyebrows over her toothpic
t to say wolfishly practical character, 
great keys and the feebly-burning candle
arly attracted his notice, and which was
rounded, each by its own jostling group 
 recalling some very weak person from a 
s chest, and sending him flying back aga
 itself. I give you that advice."
lls which had long encompassed him. On t
"
n so violent a tremble: "pray control yo
n, at a distance, with much feebler symp
that the Judge in the black cap pronounc
 George Hotel opened the coach-door as h
nsensible; with her eyes open and fixed 
 so still when he had very gently raised
ily responded to his daughter's drawing 
hinks in the wall.
rn. He, and his old canvas frock, and hi
is indignation, Mr. Cruncher betook hims
ed his breakfast, he went out for a stro
e child of his old master, and put her h
"I am going to tell you. The door-keeper
 to where the window was. He stopped the
late, have proved more important to the 
ood-sawyer      Chapter VI     Triumph  
nging-sword-alley, Whitefriars: the time
r two of the plain and the fair faces, t
the coach and half out of; they remained
h his lips many times before he could ut
p.
bed, until he rose above the surface, wi
e. At first, he slept heavily, but, by d
had any but a unnat'ral wife, and this p
 The Knitting Done      Chapter XV     T
s passed before him, of a child whom he 
 down on this side of himself, then on t
ne. "It's not my affair," said he, with 
"I was happy," said Mr. Lorry, "to be en
f its incommodiousness. They were even b
 all my duty and with all my faithful se
nsieur Defarge, and quietly stepped with
oar. "Yo there! Stand! I shall fire!"
ern voice, to Mr. Lorry, as they began a
ibility of turning at bay. Depressed and
hoe up, and resumed his work.
g wildly about, and the sea did what it 
ely, as having dirtied the hand on his a
Tellson's Bank by Temple Bar was an old-
rted away in new directions; others devo
e clear-headed. If you could kindly ment
 pale face and her cold hands. Do you ca
the hands that had not ceased to clasp h
. He then conducted the young lady strai
rs and steady eyebrows, and saw nothing.
lumsily into the lock, and turned it as 
e ancient clerk. "Speak well of the law.
game lasted. There was little roughness 
"So-ho!" the guard sang out, as loud as 
assengers, who had expeditiously secrete
yself of. In your reception of it, don't
﻿The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Tale
She sighed "No."
of action.
od-money, another fragment of ancestral 
pe of being dug out?"
kept--her hand in both his own.
 to be his tumbrils of the Revolution. B
icult to penetrate that Mr. Lorry, picki
ind the counter, he took notice that the
n to you, now. You are well on your way 
tached to it. But, the gaol was a vile p
ong main staircase when he stopped, and 
oud of its smallness, proud of its darkn
ne of pain and horror.
orward, leaving the daughter by the door
 On hearing footsteps close at hand, the
ding the chair-back with his left hand, 
 scrawled upon a wall with his finger di
kind as to advise me, that I should go t
pat out straw, while the twinkling eyes 
radesman." His stock consisted of a wood
n, of my name--Jacques is my name--to wh
had become a secret, angry, dangerous ma
nd she caught his wrist with both her ha
se heads were bent down close together a
r coming up, Joe."
, I won't trust your fore-legs till I ge
a door-step the little pot of hot ashes,
n constant requisition; now, stringing u
the dozing passenger inquired of this sp
When the mail got successfully to Dover,
 cost and with almost no restrictions wh
ch House, as well as an English one."
, and not only did it all get taken up, 
ange the instrument in his hand, for his
"Yes, Mr. Lorry."
late upon the two slumbering forms, unti
ncher, after surveying him in silence un
siness. A crown to drink. I may read thi
 looked back, and even the emphatic lead
 Chapter XXIV   Drawn to the Loadstone R
themselves through the black mist that h
 dozen, and now burning pamphlets at the
atures--the creatures of this chronicle 
ling of the court. After some gruff coug
a very little quantity of hair: not more
other hid his torture from me, weep for 
eeded, those two of the large jaws, and 
orrow of a wretched pilferer who had rob
ned away, weep for it, weep for it!"
with a gulf on either side, for nothing 
e papers of monsieur inside, with the wh
ed to breathe again, and the guard got d
ddle o' yourn, don't let me see your han
t in the dismal twilight. Your money cam
escended nearly to the wearer's knees. W
 waiting for the meal, he sat so still, 
"What did you make of it, Tom?"
ly vacant gaze, pausing in his work. He 
though it had passed like a moving light
ear side."
 Temple Bar. If your business necessitat
es, and ploughed into every furrow of ag
n cheek, cadaverous colour, emaciated ha
e of dire exasperation:
nd resumed his former attitude.
t atop of Shooter's yet! Tst! Yah! Get o
evidently with no other object than to m
nd I cannot tell you here. All that I ma
 No direct answer could have been half s
ure of that," said the guard, in gruff s
"A daughter. A-a-matter of business--don
ong and feather, took no warning.
 is the letter. Go along."
kneel to me!"
ere machine. To go on--"
e coachman, and the two other passengers
esides flinging other refuse from its ow
ay:
r. Lorry, picking his way over the well-
rn by fingers, these demonstrations ceas
nd nobody thought any of these occurrenc
atre-doors, to one of the city gates. So
 often disinherit its sons for suggestin
an of great acquirements--a Doctor."
oor      Chapter VIII   A Hand at Cards 
d Defarge, bitterly. "Yes. And a beautif
ck in her chair, she sat under his hand,
. Lorry."
II. The Mail
r or lower than the summits of the two g
ed to cloud too. When it was dark, and h
oices of men, women, and children--resou
let you know, if you don't bring smellin
le. "That's a Blazing strange answer, to
othing that hung upon poles and lines; H
opes and pulleys, to flare upon the dark
e concentrated on the ceiling of the cou
innermost personality, to me, or than I 
herein, as momentary lights glanced into
ess of their worn and wasted state. Prid
 been happy, yet his Ghost has never hau
"Yes."
Rounding his mouth and both his eyes, as
"O, sir, at another time you shall know 
fully to Dover, in the course of the for
As he said the words he looked down, wit
e, in Paris, where it was spilled. It ha
dropped his voice, there was a flutter a
his last glassful of wine with as comple
speration, settle his odd little flaxen 
my boy, and while I clean my boots keep 
rloiner of forty shillings and sixpence 
, submission, lamentation, succeeded one
 of shirt lay open at the throat, and sh
ime she trembled under such strong emoti
 into the worst of luck. B-u-u-ust me!" 
moothness down hill, making paper money 
sts of your husband and child, would you
ed out loudly for assistance without mov
rt her; therefore he called out loudly f
right shawl twined about her head, thoug
 he looks on, and then his head will be 
me?"
isoner. It would be worse than useless n
er in the course of my business day; in 
nishment of which no one could foresee t
oom in every one of them encloses its ow
a musty odour, as if they were fast deco
utter a tremendous curse. No direct answ
see," said Monsieur Defarge.
"You are right, Jacques," was the respon
 he said, stood looking down into her fa
so much more at my ease about your state
than usual, before the shoemaker replied
 questioner when they had sought the gro
rned tell us it is doubtful whether thei
e in the port, and a quantity of strolli
 had all run out between their fingers. 
e, at his hoarsest.
story, sir; and I begin to think"--the c
ot lessened by the accidental circumstan
"You have a visitor, you see," said Mons
laid her hand upon his arm. A strange th
ame into court with the prisoners, and s
s city, so dreadful to him."
f the inn servants, and soon settled the
med to make his way quietly, the messeng
l known to Fleet-street and the Temple, 
ain of it, for his brown stockings fitte
ck-lane brood.
ul grating, by which any languishing goo
The wine-shop was a corner shop, better 
 for the journey?" asked Mr. Lorry.
blance to a pair of monkeys. The resembl
ains, and then it ran, by many eccentric
agitation. The hearts of the passengers 
vement to congratulate an adventurous tr
d leg, and was a little vain of it, for 
hen!" the near leader violently shook hi
"What's coming on?"
d up and down this hideous scene of acti
surface, and I stood in ignorance on the
 you. I can't afford it. I'm not a going
s his express image. People understood t
This dialogue had been held in so very l
Jerry took the letter, and, remarking to
It happened, at length, that he had occa
hich might be capable of holding about h
 I thank you very gratefully. It was tol
"I show him, in the way you have seen, t
, and several maids and the landlady, we
d--except, indeed, the social doors by w
The end of the first book.
eing "the House," you were put into a sp
ntleman's protection. The gentleman had 
the true face of the buried person, the 
n regular changes, without a moment's in
 way I am, or I have been, trustee of on
Having thus given his parent God speed, 
 he sat, with a steadfastly vacant gaze,
ed them outwards with an argumentative s
Mr. Lorry moved in his chair, and cast a
tured to himself that it might have been
 it was pretty and characteristic, besid
?"
"The word is not material, miss; either 
so did varieties of sunken cheek, cadave
ds in its pockets, and you could hardly 
is head again.
"Why, look at you all!" bawled this figu
e Country; which did very often disinher
many hands, too, and many faces, and man
g. Little more than a single syllable co
lawful opener of a letter was put to Dea
, when the gaunt scarecrows of that regi
, bore few traces of anxiety. But, perha
while his lips began to form some words,
le of opposite passenger, became the ban
 a whisper, of the man he found himself 
Any one of these partners would have dis
d forth to the occupation of the day.
windows; not even a chance passerby was 
"Never you mind what it is!" the guard r
treasure and other things submerged. It 
old water, and vinegar, quick, I will."
She repeated in the same tone, sunk to a
 inflict bodily and mental injuries of a
tone, sunk to a whisper, "I have been fr
 was put to death, already marked by the
patriot who could exercise a privilege t
 would explain to me the details of the 
Jerry started in his saddle. "That's a B
her moment, and the voice replied, "Yes-
"Naturally," said Mr. Lorry. "Yes--I--"
he skill of a man accustomed to make his
B-u-u-ust me!" said Mr. Cruncher, who al
ir part in it. Its deplorable peculiarit
 by an express conviction that, if it we
hen there was no drawbridge, and he saw 
of the past day, the real strong rooms, 
he way with his tribe too.
d the patient on a sofa, and tended her 
"Sir, I thank you indeed. I thank you ve
 torn out with pincers, and his body bur
Mr. Jerry Cruncher to squeeze himself in
have been worth remarking that the fact 
ommitted under Heaven. Altogether, the O
ed in a moment that it was his name. The
 honour to a dirty procession of monks w
efarge's arm; "do you remember nothing o
t as he had last seen them.
can I transact business if I am confused
tool, entered on his reversionary intere
of rags and nightcaps, and all visible t
were wrapped to the cheekbones and over 
s shoemaking tools and the unfinished sh
"Have you recognised him, monsieur?" ask
 and stood surveying the guest while he 
never slackened her unavailing search fo
, besides, with such humane achievements
itude.
ties, by Charles Dickens
nd his body burned alive, because he had
is renouncing by proxy the works of dark
 her left hand, Madame Defarge said noth
her head, though not to the concealment 
 which he had, in some old day, wound of
ht the skirt of her dress. He raised the
d when she died--I believe broken-hearte
ith the other business of Tellson's Hous
 of business. I have a business charge t
, kiss me! O my dear, my dear!"
 head drawer at the Royal George Hotel o
 thin wine and beer, and were gloweringl
 in some of its imaginings, a secret to 
 as complete as if each had been in his 
"Why do you want to know?"
ion, as if it were at a distance:
. Mr. Lorry's spirits grew heavier and h
avy, and the gunmaker's stock was murder
he spot where the only visitor they were
y under the impression that the Christia
cher looked at him then or afterwards, s
a marine ostrich. The beach was a desert
. Not that it did the least good in the 
d-job-man's feet, it formed the encampme
every head was prematurely white. A hund
ad been in his own coach and six, or his
 room to which the door belonged, throug
"Willingly, sir," said Monsieur Defarge,
tion, and went his way.
shing down a narrow pass with a gulf on 
 and left the place. The eyes of Monsieu
n't get no iron rust here!"
 a short grove of feebler and feebler ov
ment. Noakes and Co.'s might, or Snooks 
"In your adopted country, I presume, I c
 affairs, like the affairs of many other
 of the oldest of clerks to Jerry the me
Chapter I      Five Years Later      Cha
he woods of France and Norway, there wer
t decided negative, made a decided scram
d?"
s but these its own workings, and a few 
nto a Barmecide room, that always had a 
"What did you say?"
rest and finding none. A clammy and inte
l injuries of an acute description on pa
nt had happened in getting it out of a c
 with his stockings, was as white as the
"Yes. We are quite a French House, as we
After a pause, he added, again settling 
ere business relations, when you reflect
"A despatch sent after you from over yon
w of the right, and then passed a hand a
s head will be chopped off, and he'll be
ng out of his sleeping closet, where he 
agnificent potentate, the Lord Mayor of 
 to keep his hat cocked over his eyes. H
dustrious appearance rose from her knees
r. Lorry, resuming on the shortest notic
 slow years of the North Tower--ages ago
ain in 'em, which was me and which someb
 skill and gentleness: calling her "my p
d marks on the billets; and the forehead
expression, under an old cocked-hat like
hand.
, whom I never saw--so long dead--"
hut. Your bank-notes had a musty odour, 
His haggard eyes turned to Defarge as if
plied the strong woman. "If it was ever 
 at the top. There, as it had an abrupt 
d itself away from the beach, and ran it
The shoe dropped to the ground, and he s
ach, and ran its head into the chalk cli
, varying his apostrophe after missing h
rers' warehouses for security; the highw
e vexed coachman, "and not atop of Shoot
 clothes, "if I ain't, what with piety a
 to identify him if I can: you, to resto
d      Chapter X      Two Promises      
 him to eat and drink, and put on the cl
 kept close company with it. If any one 
r as he could overlay his natural self w
oth lay quiet, until a light gleamed thr
ough they work unceasingly, work silentl
ung and smooth it was), of rifting and k
derly gentleman advanced from his corner
o a point where she could see him, and w
, and if you see any signs of more flopp
hen. Whether or no, I won't be prayed ag
"Ah! So much the worse! A bitter taste i
 I made the same of it myself."
 various ways of gaining a livelihood. S
ds the whole time. His eyes came slowly 
h. He had a white beard, raggedly cut, b
s possible; though we will hope the best
oemaker replied:
sitor they were aware of had stood, was 
 bread; at the sausage-shop, in every de
room in which he lay abed was already sc
 attention, when Mr. Cruncher looked at 
in action; also, for extensive transacti
"I believe so."
espective roadside destinations. The mil
e some money last week instead of being 
he would get them, and went, knitting, o
 city gates. Soldiers with lanterns, at 
 responded to the salutation, as if it w
ire, and as he sat, with its light shini
y night, and looking seaward: particular
got to the end of a bottle, when a rattl
sand seven hundred and eighty, the first
 of its ugliness, proud of its incommodi
"More fit for that, I think, than to rem
ail, as the rest of the passengers did; 
of shoe it is, and the maker's name."
y, yet not be far from the truth."
 the neck, and rocked him on her breast 
he Wine-shop      Chapter VI     The Sho
 became the bank, and did a great stroke
on him. They were overclouded again, the
of clothes, pretty well worn, but very w
he addition of the first handful of stra
ed blunderbusses in among them, loaded w
 sat in the shop behind the counter as h
e conscious that it was in hers too. He 
the terms of the Project Gutenberg Licen
o his feet.
n, we were all going direct the other wa
"Leave us, good boys; we have business h
conceded to England at that favoured per
all going direct to Heaven, we were all 
t now, in saying I had no feelings, and 
eat grove of stars.
"Assuredly I did."
"I am going to see his Ghost! It will be
when I was left an orphan through my mot
Its abiding place was in all things fitt
n not engaged in making forays through t
'em. For I'm a devil at a quick mistake,
er himself always spoke of the year of o
ent on:
 hail drifted heavily and the sea ran hi
 of sparing the poor child the inheritan
e, it could never be set right in your l
As the ancient clerk deliberately folded
s.
as arose out of _her_ private topics of 
He set down his glass untouched. "This i
ovender, and the lamp he carried, on the
"If, when I tell you, dearest dear, that
uckier or lighter-hearted, to frolicsome
his face, and shake the wet out of his h
had stood, was not yet empty.
arm securely through the leathern strap,
had repeated it.
riminals got there, and those were alway
ntal circumstance, that the mature Jerry
year one thousand seven hundred and seve
oftly. The staircase was short, and they
ne at www.gutenberg.org
hand, "near to the window of my establis
There, his eyes happening to catch the t
.
st and the worst are known to you, now. 
 a sickly manner overhead, as if they we
iness gravely. When they took a young ma
roperty; but--"
 was remarkable that nobody in the neigh
 Defarge, looking down at the white head
to rags again. Your plate was stowed awa
ut. Got out at last, with earth hanging 
 cards. So the guard of the Dover mail t
"What passenger?"
ever ceased to run, all through the nigh
r VII    A Knock at the Door      Chapte
awled this figure, addressing the inn se
Mr. Jarvis Lorry and Miss Manette, emerg
"The door is locked then, my friend?" sa
orn, but very well kept, with large squa
uddenly fan away to dust. The passenger 
 of her Christian pastors, she entertain
e of glass in it might be counted as one
your name, my gentle angel?"
"Ay. Yes," was the grim reply of Monsieu
Thank God for us, thank God!"
one to another, in the course of my busi
--then the history of your father would 
a boot. "You're at it agin, are you?"
ld have slowly formed in any one, the ab
 full to the light, and looked at her.
. "He's hoarser than suits me, is Jerry.
ll of the garret, very near to the bench
nimble spring upward, and came down in a
capitulated and returned to their duty.
on horseback had exactly the same posses
turn the key." Monsieur Defarge whispere
n that; Monsieur Manette is, for all rea
ed and Five, North Tower;" and when he l
 non-descript, it was the likeliest thin
ensely before her little child was born,
ost! It will be his Ghost--not him!"
eared off (as to this world) the trouble
ing it in a dream,
for a while at all events--out of France
lty," said the other. "Don't you be afra
-house could produce somebody in "the Ca
undutiful grin.
 communicated a tremulous motion to the 
icult to guess to what dreadful place, t
t very day, rude carts, bespattered with
 money, or of any other property; but--"
til dawn, they once more whispered in th
 jaggedly all over it, and growing down 
t the key again, and held it in his hand
 it ran; others, directed by lookers-on 
paper; Hunger was repeated in every frag
were made for the swallowing up of Londo
against the door-post, knitting, and saw
ce-wood, in which many leaves of burning
ine.
ious points of the road between the Conc
into the train of the night shadows with
 the tremendous wrong and suffering whic
he window. "He may come close; there's n
"I hope she will do well now," said Mr. 
Book the First--Recalled to Life
rated some person in that capacity, and 
 finger.
 boldest people afraid to speak of in a 
ps Die Out For Ever
ually, in carts and coaches, on a violen
ll on your way to the poor wronged gentl
ey differed principally in the passions 
 said Mr. Lorry, with the manners of an 
boy: going and flopping herself down, an
"What now? Are you a subject for the mad
of being ogled through the windows, by t
 the uniform. "Adieu!" from Defarge. And
vainly hope in time to read it all. No m
nd fell into discourse with the triumvir
nce without moving.
 said he, with a final shrug of the shou
seemed to escape, and all spoilt and sic
led neighbourhood; and nothing within ra
fe laid waste, and of our native France 
s business. The Dover road lay, as to hi
such poor cattle always have in their mo
nine nose, the line of which was as deli
ng to Mr. Lorry to come forward.
e, and I have been busy with the other b
e to keep them back, he stooped, and loo
man in his box at the door of Tellson's 
 events had lately come to the English C
in," gallantly shot him through the head
rance. In both countries it was clearer 
"Not of late years. It is fifteen years 
jectionable, it would be less respectabl
be seen, spectacularly poring over large
ep for it!"
 dancing attitude, with one of his stain
"I hope," said Mr. Lorry, after another 
to him coherently, though slowly.
 this course with you. And when she died
 streams of wine that started away in ne
parison only.
"One Hundred and Five, North Tower."
He felt his wrist held closer, and he st
"No, no, no; you are too young, too bloo
ed this, carefully, on his knee, and it 
houlder, and beckoned them to enter. Mr.
 his arm securely round the daughter's w
e smith's hammers were heavy, and the gu
n your ears, weep for it, weep for it! I
ry crimes that could be committed under 
o desirable to be good use in the beginn
Now that he had no work to hold, he laid
his left hand, and using his right by tu
?"
s.
s that it must have cost their owner, in
ith heavy dark tables. These had been oi
ence."
s to come into fashion, Jerry!"
de. That's well, friend Defarge. Come, n
 there, to cut off little streams of win
"There will be a packet to Calais, tomor
"Wo-ho!" said the coachman. "So, then! O
    Chapter XVIII  Nine Days      Chapte
"What is the matter?"
 which warmed and lighted it as though i
ings, and why not Legislation's? Accordi
it but to empty his glass with an air of
hing before us, we had nothing before us
"Miss Manette, I am a man of business. I
 sat so still, that he might have been s
notice that the elderly gentleman said i
et-street.
"No thanks to you in brown, if she does.
he Dover mail thought to himself, that F
e light of the coach-lamps but these its
gy, for any tidings of him, and all quit
"If he's found Guilty, you mean to say?"
to the mist and darkness, he would have 
"Here is a visitor."
beach. The little narrow, crooked town o
'ye mind me? And if you've got holsters 
odical manners; "and if business is to b
It is very difficult to begin."
door-keeper, whom he saw making his way 
ble lords at Court drawing-rooms; musket
ieur Manette had not died; if he had sud
ore nine, in good time to touch his thre
 on each knee, and a loud watch ticking 
 to begin slowly." Thus, Monsieur Defarg
ay there, if you please, a little moment
Mr. Lorry observed to be all of a red co
With a weary sound that was not a sigh, 
noon, sir. Bed, sir?"
n every door that opened on the general 
f the scarecrows in vain, for the birds,
 the Bank, sir, yesterday, informing me 
I'm not a going to be made unlucky by _y
n's had nothing left for it but to empty
able, had deepened into one of pain and 
tering by accident at various points of 
."
 of your chest and voice, my good friend
her teeth with a toothpick. Thus engaged
oser, and he stopped. The expression in 
own on the bench beside him. He recoiled
ess of physical weakness, though confine
 because he had not kneeled down in the 
etween the Concord and the coffee-room, 
f him, but which were now extending towa
 Devil. Let us go on."
hy don't you go and fetch things, instea
"They only come from the heart, Jerry. T
of daylight, and found that the shadows 
Book the First--Recalled to Life
e Defarge, with three flourishes. She ac
de, with the white head. They were consi
under the circumstances, but because the
ags of meat; the baker, the coarsest of 
 that some of its noisiest authorities i
 Promises      Chapter XI     A Companio
ht at, or stayed some passing shadow.
 and evil communications corrupted its g
es, on a violent passage into the other 
nty-five, lumbering up Shooter's Hill, a
said to the drawer, as he moved his chai
 them, and the bulky bundle of opposite 
e of nothing but the horses; as to which
 raggedly bald, he had stiff, black hair
being asleep. With no more definite purp
This third interchange of the Christian 
little more?"
ut, as loud as he could roar. "Yo there!
tention, he drew the key across it, thre
pon her warm young breast, and love it b
And the old answer:
lling her "my precious!" and "my bird!" 
It would kill me if I saw her too soon."
s, as if they were falling to pieces at 
d occupied but an instant.
 being always heavily wrapped up from he
, the room had the odd interest for the 
down her face, she put her two hands to 
 not what harm--if his door was left ope
nes, and when the stain of it would be r
"Almost eighteen years."
kept the required watch upon his mother.
rough a trap in it. For, people then pai
ing recognised and challenged by his fel
ore he could utter it. But when he did f
n's, in a stately way, tolerated the odd
pages was made at a doleful grating, by 
aid, indignantly turning to Mr. Lorry; "
What are you?"
umility, while the strong woman, having 
xamined the signature by the dingiest of
one. Now if this doctor's wife, though a
ve a strong and eager interest to know w
uncing that arrangements were made for t
As the day declined into the afternoon, 
a decided scramble for it, and the three
"I mean of him. Of my father."
The wine was red wine, and had stained t
ered necessary, by those who know, and w
the whole as to matters spiritual than h
he majesty of the law fired blunderbusse
ter of business. Regard it as a matter o
und. He is alive. Greatly changed, it is
ature's remedy for all things, and why n
. Jerry, you honest tradesman, it wouldn
 her drooping head upon her shoulder.
 it in chains of straw, a tangle of shag
pon his mother. He greatly disturbed tha
now, for Concord!"
ter, and what do you say now!"
pon the second word.)
re is monsieur, who knows a well-made sh
is a young lady's walking-shoe. It is in
tock was murderous. The crippling stones
oked from the coachman to the guard, and
on in winter was an achievement to congr
 a pallet bed), and he and Mr. Lorry rou
"Come on at a footpace! d'ye mind me? An
 long sigh, he took the shoe up, and res
"Halloa!" the guard replied.
yself to find them of a surprising natur
 before it, that the two beholders cover
 watch ticking a sonorous sermon under h
of ploughed land, with a plough upon it 
With those words the passenger opened th
did it. Let them bring another."
y closing the little procession. They ha
ch strong emotion, and her face expresse
echo of a sound made long and long ago. 
gnorance on the shore. My friend is dead
been ranged on Temple Bar instead of bei
ce illustration of the precept, that "Wh
 wine-shops, croaked over their scanty m
ing yourself down, flop in favour of you
or and got in; not at all assisted by hi
t is lazy, did it not include the troubl
ward under his hand, and he looked into 
Not a word was spoken, not a sound was m
 voice underground. So expressive it was
r.
ongevity against the levity and evanesce
e was old. They kept him in a dark place
er of fifty, not to speak of fifteen yea
of us have dry ways. Here is the letter.
e puddles with little mugs of mutilated 
him.
e two eyes of each were, bore a consider
 hot temperament, for, although it was a
ch she presided. Madame Defarge being se
"Very well. Find the door where the witn
nd his face, though lined, bore few trac
 "than I, as a honest tradesman, wish to
ach roof.
nds of breasts there, is, in some of its
e like Tellson and Company was flourishi
fidential bachelor clerks in Tellson's B
labouring horses steamed into it, as if 
 shoulder. His shirt-sleeves were rolled
great pride and care.
on gaols fought battles with their turnk
attened his flaxen wig upon his head wit
 tell you at this time, and I cannot tel
body in "the Captain's" pay, ranging fro
d he refolded his little packet and trie
 were, all, grim illustrations of Want. 
vely apart, "these are the papers of mon
us to see the gentleman from Tellson's i
tum of cutlass.
Providence would have cast my lot in an 
 as he could make. Finally, he walked ac
he hand at Newgate by the dozen, and now
."
el, and his eye on the horseman, answere
 and shut out the sight of him, but whic
g Jerry, dress yourself, my boy, and whi
ay to do it.
 were not in a savoury neighbourhood, an
aid Mr. Cruncher, with unconscious incon
if it were in a state of agitation. The 
But, he feigned not to notice the two st
ing the moister wine-rotted fragments wi
 obtained one infamous notoriety that ha
 and one tall joker so besmirched, his h
s his name. The guard, the coachman, and
ased to clasp his wrists were so much mo
. The hands of the man who sawed the woo
he took it up and looked at it. In the m
 they had been there. And so exactly was
 be gone agin, in this manner. I am as r
t perfectly still in his grasp, and only
't have my wittles blest off my table. K
 to her.
 lumbered, jolted, rattled, and bumped u
ities within, the shadows of the night t
s and sixpence was put to Death; the hol
an accompaniment of noise as he could ma
gain; and a gloom gathered on the scene 
heir divine rights with a high hand. Thu
nything that recalls a beloved head that
with the lifting of her darkly defined e
s voice, and invariably turned to it whe
upper staircase, of a steeper inclinatio
! Let us draw further back. Hush!"
orry answer straight."
s, one clumsy lamp was slung by a rope a
frightened compassion, if not even to ke
" and when he looked about him, it evide
ess, it was the spring of hope, it was t
the same possessions as the King, the fi
he next passenger, and driving him into 
eir furniture to upholsterers' warehouse
y to lame all living creatures that appr
 Mr. Lorry, who had stood up to look for
 after another pause of feeble sympathy 
n it was, "I don't know her. I don't und
her such things are possible, and not on
 and entered the wine-shop.
held her; for he felt that she was sinki
just over the little feminine nose, the 
ested on the step by his asking, miserab
he landlady, were all loitering by accid
ed upon the trees. Though the earth was 
cry of "You are going to flop, mother. -
lue-mould upon him. Then only was he per
t was always in that individuality, and 
r drooping over him curtained him from t
s his eyes rested on a short, slight, pr
drink the wine. The rough, irregular sto
I     Triumph      Chapter VII    A Knoc
n of the old rag she wound about her hea
scraps of leather were at his feet and o
d ground close at the father's side, and
an't be. See what the prisoner is. These
he sat looking up into his.
gh, fell to work at his shoemaking.
er company were there: two playing cards
tered houses encloses its own secret; th
superlative degree of comparison only.
"I did, Joe."
n arm drawn through the leathern strap, 
ired of this spectre:
 counted as one. But they were very dece
perhaps accidentally, perhaps not) upon 
t outside Newgate had not obtained one i
"Monsieur Manette, do you remember nothi
hat was not quite one of perplexity, or 
n them, no particular interest, nothing 
egular series of gradations, and coaxed 
 and desertion reigned there. Only one s
to you, weep for it, weep for it! And if
d up. He showed no surprise at seeing an
're a nice woman! What do you mean by fl
rth no more than that."
So powerful is use, and so desirable to 
ooked down, with an admiring pity, on th
ssion repeated on the fair young face of
gning with his hand, Jerry attracted the
wife's petitions. "I ain't a going to be
Without directly answering to this appea
 at what time, sir?"
 there was yet some wild-beast thought o
re light?"
h, in touching my hair, anything that re
the mill that grinds young people old; t
nd the forehead of the woman who nursed 
What time, the mail-coach lumbered, jolt
But, though the bank was almost always w
looked at it (his lips and his nails wer
es; as to which cattle he could with a c
ng up afresh, was the sigh, Hunger. It w
ice, if it is Jerry," growled the guard 
child was born, that she came to the det
ve predicated that she did not often mak
 the weary passenger started to the cons
is hearing as just spoken--distinctly in
ttached to Tellson's establishment was p
 received this, as well as if I wrote. M
ailure of his ammunition:" after which t
with the staves of the cask, had acquire
 this one when they were left alone, Mr.
children, were but newly released from t
"You are still hard at work, I see?"
 as sick people went down to be dipped i
oving a hand from his work.
onfidential on a short notice, for anybo
as given:
 word or two of reassurance.
ming in, to see anything; and long habit
pute in Paris. I had the honour of knowi
 does my father get all that iron rust f
n's wanted no light, Tellson's wanted no
 chin and throat, which descended nearly
adfastly in his face:
gh. This, in combination with the liftin
e Barrier!" The postilion cracked his wh
 mother's a nice woman, young Jerry, goi
erefore, all the Old Bailey doors were w
story of your regretted father. Now come
 as a point in space where anything is s
; and perhaps second-hand cares, like se
d backward from the table, the waiter sh
 you bring to him, all the relief, all t
oilet, with a suppressed cry of "You are
rseman, answered curtly, "Sir."
ined him from the light.
nd not to be alienated inheritance, the 
As the concentrated expression returned 
by any means in it, unless called in--wa
n, and that what they had was secured to
of mist closing round it as it began the
 coming against the wall.)
tir enough, and carried their divine rig
d day, wound off upon his finger.
o think of your useful life laid waste, 
"I suppose they'll be trying Forgeries t
th a gentleman of the Bank, so good as t
 of the coach-lamp on that side, and rea
ose voice was that?"
As to this, his natural and not to be al
e, a quantity of golden hair, a pair of 
-I don't know that it is so, but I hope 
d than his words.) "A matter of business
eir condition. But, the time was not com
te, as he made his formal bow again, and
ica: which, strange to relate, have prov
egin."
ask had tumbled out with a run, the hoop
 light was admitted through these means,
, distinct, awe-stricken voice, as if sh
led the illustrious creature in sight of
ld) the trouble of each particular case,
prise of your visit," explained Monsieur
o a comfortable attitude, and stood surv
astily dividing the business that was ne
frame, and from it through his. She said
who know, and who are so kind as to advi
lest shadow of a stress upon the second 
gled on, with the jack-boots of its pass
 came down in a fantastic dancing attitu
m. By degrees, in the pauses of his quic
terest for the establishment of the Roya
e street while this wine game lasted. Th
s, who immediately scrambled into the co
. Lorry took, as though he dreaded to be
the Dover mail, as it lumbered up Shoote
ntleman with his hands in his pockets, w
icion that they were awake, was to be at
ck cap pronounced his own doom as certai
ery ill, and, turning to his mother, str
p anxiety, and, above all, such dread an
 known the pains of, by rearing her in t
"It is the law," remarked the ancient cl
g to speak.
ed before him, and he went in among them
ld mail coach; they were mysteries to on
istance:
tches and purses in their boots, and wer
e House came with its hands in its pocke
ock at my Lord Chief Justice himself, an
With an admonitory gesture to keep them 
-rave--tear himself to pieces--die--come
ge.
"Only one thing more," said Mr. Lorry, l
d the wheel for the descent, and open th
 said Monsieur Defarge to himself; "I do
nking!"
ost-horses?"
nt in originality) rapped out theirs. Me
ea Still Rises      Chapter XXIII  Fire 
entleman of the name of Lorry answer str
 he uttered this cry, and went up to his
rvis Lorry withdrew to consider it.
a hackney-coach, I'm as sleepy as laudan
ad been in his life--when the weary pass
he relations I hold with my fellow-creat
"What!" said Mr. Cruncher, looking out o
r wronged gentleman, and, with a fair se
d and overspread one another, as the wav
u; useful business. Miss Manette, your m
"The little child was a daughter, sir."
d not died when he did--Don't be frighte
ked about him in the old way. Finally, w
 are there."
on.
, she entertained herself, besides, with
and heavily ringed, a steady face, stron
 person from a swoon, or endeavouring, i
warning.
 so exactly was the expression repeated 
ides the one, were plodding up the hill 
at had undergone a terrible grinding and
eply of Monsieur Defarge.
"Porter wanted!"
 over. Then, all the good you bring to h
 his indecision, met her glance. The you
gree that I shouldn't know, if it wasn't
st merchant in London. So with the three
els came up the narrow street, and rumbl
, sir."
ven if poverty and deprivation had not l
the joker's dress, such as it was--quite
restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy i
nly not in the fabulous mill which groun
er, as his father's did, kept the requir
n and women, dipped in the puddles with 
e anything is suffered or done: the shad
 more happy to execute it."
gan to roll and surge in bed, until he r
her betook himself to his boot-cleaning 
htcaps, and all smelling of rags and nig
grim, as if he had been up all night at 
 as to entertain any suspicion that they
ir travelling backwards and forwards bet
ing his feet, and keeping an eye and a h
rticulars, and were fired by an express 
de of faces that showed themselves befor
ssurance to Mr. Jarvis Lorry.
eds got into extemporised strong-rooms m
ut out everything from the light of the 
 there is no friendship in them, no part
 day. On this post of his, Mr. Cruncher 
 of a Home long desolate, while your poo
 years ago. He married--an English lady-
her. A solemn consideration, when I ente
ooking man of thirty, and he should have
 enough that, rooted in the woods of Fra
its obscurity, was rather like a larger 
mean anything. But what is the matter! S
or to let the passengers in.
at the shadows of the night were gone.
that every beating heart in the hundreds
tion, that inflicted a punishment of whi
The emphatic horse, cut short by the whi
t side, and read--first to himself and t
eelings! I have no time for them, no cha
handful of straw that could be gleaned f
 no old business, no old servant, no old
ide had drifted this person to the post.
bent over their shoulders, to sip, befor
ou can bear it?"
and wore jack-boots. Not one of the thre
ike Monsieur Manette, your father, the g
w to Miss Manette.
ad been really otherwise; but, they were
 die.
are to the elbows. Neither did he wear a
"Into the court, sir?"
ttention: "he has been found under anoth
ening out a short supply of wine. As he 
whispered in the ears of Mr. Jarvis Lorr
any one to the oblivion of a prison for 
worse--and by lighted shops, gay crowds,
 in Tellson's Bank were principally occu
berately folded and superscribed the not
worse than useless, was in constant requ
ng, a dozen together. When the wine was 
rain of cough, and raised her eyebrows b
an sunshine.
eferred to.
e, when a rattling of wheels came up the
rity; the highwayman in the dark was a C
ry night look, at monsieur with the whit
red his liquor in with his right; as soo
nt, knitting, out of the lamplight, thro
 work; looked with a vacant air of liste
"And the maker's name?" said Defarge.
ze from the shoemaker, "to let in a litt
of a strong resolution and a set purpose
ntleman so retired?"
this chronicle among the rest--along the
han she. He made her another bow.
on--a matter of business. As I was sayin
h they may in the spirit.' Those were th
n they rested on it, he started, and res
 native France so wicked to you, weep fo
With the tears streaming down her face, 
near to one another as the two eyes of e
ill which ground old people young, shive
e.
The fellow pointed to his joke with imme
"I choose them as real men, of my name--
chman in a warning voice, looking down f
rom Tellson's immediately, if it suited 
manner. There was a character about Mada
rse, denying that the coach could be got
ersed many steps of the long main stairc
rough his, and took--and kept--her hand 
ty, "that you accompany Miss Manette to 
s laid low before it had been ranged on 
 long concealed. It would be worse than 
ep the flint and steel sparks well off t
hile he stepped over the way.
 dark: for, the window of dormer shape, 
onduct their Greatnesses, and myriads of
ld inquiry:
 down, and taking him gravely apart, "th
ng her teeth with her toothpick, coughed
 holds and the wind sets tolerable fair.
laxen wig, setting very close to his hea
them and the fire, a young lady of not m
travellers set out continually, in carts
But indeed, at that time, putting to dea
 be worse than useless now to inquire wh
 was put to Death; the unlawful opener o
t, which did occasionally happen, he had
im that she felt how much older and wise
r a great muffler for the chin and throa
"I hope you care to live?"
XXI    Echoing Footsteps      Chapter XX
"I say a horse at a canter coming up, Jo
Not yet trusting the tones of her voice,
"I replied to the Bank, sir, that as it 
 had three times already come to a stop,
in me?"
with large square cuffs and large flaps 
cloud upon you of living in uncertainty 
f a prison for any length of time; if hi
head a most wonderful bonnet like a Gren
 an insensate brutality and ferocity wor
and poison, the way lay. Yielding to his
, flapping hat, and muddy legs, was rath
the top of a strongly spiked wall than a
at favoured period, as at this. Mrs. Sou
blishment was put through the door, and 
he mature Jerry bit and spat out straw, 
As the captive of many years sat looking
ilently on at the morning traffic in Fle
Madame Defarge, still using her toothpic
actised, and where dire diseases were br
. He had a wild, lost manner of occasion
 flavour that one might have supposed si
re opened on the mist and rain, on the m
e middle of the room were gloomily refle
siness, or their idleness, to run to the
were so much more steady than they had b
tone before lying down to die.
ld.
yself, and I naturally have a strong and
by turns, at Mr. Lorry and at Defarge, s
after missing his mark--"what are you up
"Did you ask me for my name?"
d a set purpose; a man not desirable to 
tooped, and looked in through the crevic
 upon it.)
tle counters, where the oldest of men ma
ness of aspect left, but had become a se
be ascended, before the garret story was
trange message. Much of that wouldn't do
r drawer, and two porters, and several m
ave been half so forcible. Mr. Lorry's s
The pace was suddenly checked, and, with
The wine-shop keeper accordingly rolled 
r the specks of sail that glinted in the
oung Jerry, going a praying agin your fa
dred and seventy-five. Spiritual revelat
. He resented Mrs. Cruncher's saying gra
a hurry, "Yes, customers; in the banking
He took her hair into his hand again, an
 behind her, on the frame of which, a ho
n elderly gentleman of a fresh complexio
en Thread
nconvenience. After bursting open a door
g and bewildered, and then it was, "I do
on. After standing with the bridle over 
 all its foreign and home connection, ev
d put on the cloak and other wrappings, 
at would be as final as it is lazy, did 
I. The Period
he suburb of Saint Antoine, in Paris, wh
ing a brawny hand upon his chest, and se
Then, as the darkness closed in, the dau
was stained with the stain of the old ra
r Mr. Jarvis Lorry, or she may only ask 
ssary, for nothing could be flatter than
 British subjects in America: which, str
 saw, what either of the other two was l
all. Soon raising his head again, he str
"Just so. And you know Mr. Lorry."
f no Delicacy      Chapter XIV    The Ho
and his brown arms were bare to the elbo
nch construction. To exclude the cold, o
e in the mist, "because, if I should mak
h his. She said, in a low, distinct, awe
own into her face while she sat looking 
air, that the best of players at leap-fr
s represented in a flourishing condition
ion were various and contradictory. Some
"I can't say."
 and deepened, and they both lay quiet, 
g. He watched her as she mused, and the 
about to follow. He remained on the step
ut woman of about his own age, with a wa
hose who had been greedy with the staves
The door-keeper will pass the note to Mr
xposed on Temple Bar with an insensate b
"Eighteen years!" said the passenger, lo
ther passengers eyed him distrustfully.
e broken-hearted--having never slackened
efarge. Come, now. Business, business!"
 were very shy of being confidential on 
hich a momentary gleam had driven from h
, they turned back on the questioner whe
ns, and coaxed her to lay her drooping h
ad: the rather, forasmuch as to entertai
 tradesman met with! Young Jerry, dress 
, and which was now immovable, had deepe
ou, good gentlemen, do not come near us,
"You know the Old Bailey well, no doubt?
hands cut off, his tongue torn out with 
 messenger, harping on one theme as he r
 back of the chair to lay it on the supp
tial together. Nothing was represented i
"How was this?--_Was it you_?"
Now, which of the multitude of faces tha
s of her voice, she sat down on the benc
 opposition to the interests of your hus
iously up the hill.
ring back the remembrance of a Home long
Life must hush at last--they came forwar
 recently attained her five-and-twentiet
lson's London house, they hid him somewh
e and down your throat when they were op
Author: Charles Dickens
The garret, built to be a depository for
arks well off the straw, and get a light
ber, furnished bachelor-fashion, that yo
de him, and he bent over his work.
air, a pair of blue eyes that met his ow
heir own iron bars proper, and the heavy
 friend is dead, my neighbour is dead, m
"Saying your prayers! You're a nice woma
s!" the guard retorted. "What are you?"
ry clean white cloth was spread.
 adventurous traveller upon.
.
y, work silently, and no one heard them 
He lowered the window, and looked out at
"I was not praying against you; I was pr
orm some words, though no sound proceede
ng up the hill by the side of the mail. 
By Charles Dickens
, succeeded one another; so did varietie
l attribute that the partners in the Hou
ns and whip and coachman and guard, howe
ith both her hands.
s which.
was like the last feeble echo of a sound
"Why! Because he has lived so long, lock
ing there staring at me? I am not so muc
"
peaking machine--truly, I am not much el
. And you will see how truly I spoke of 
s of Notre-Dame, had any promise on it o
 the man.
of their parchments into the banking-hou
, if they kept too far apart. They had a
e works of darkness, in the easterly par
he bridle over his heavily-splashed arm,
es in gloomy abstraction sought the grou
 to this course, and in favour of one of
ad been taken on Tuesday; now, burning p
spilled on the street-stones, and when t
 wife once more, "I won't be gone agin, 
t when I was summoned out--she had a fea
endeavouring, in the hope of some disclo
It was the year of Our Lord one thousand
voluntary action she caught at, or staye
called to life?"
y, dangerous man.
t eyes, the little coach-windows, and th
th a door in the roof, with a little cra
ng-table in it and never had a dinner, a
y-splashed arm, until the wheels of the 
This wine-shop keeper was a bull-necked,
clothes, come easily off and on.
lled to Life;' which may mean anything. 
e reality of mist and rain on his cheek.
ng as ever spoken words had been in his 
 remember nothing of me?"
"Good day!"
  The Jackal      Chapter VI     Hundred
th no depth in the colour or form, and m
r, emaciated hands and figures. But the 
No human intelligence could have read th
 procession of negro cupids. As if _they
ul whether their rays have even yet disc
 son. You've got a religious mother, you
oss the road, with the mutinous intent o
 straw travelling-hat by its ribbon in h
ere questions which no sagacity could ha
ing for me here."
."
ord! Gentleman's valise and hot water to
A bottle of good claret after dinner doe
r did he wear anything more on his head 
Darkness had fallen on him in its place.
n old servant in Paris, and we are going
ashion, that you wished to see, and were
 natural self with, issued forth to the 
at the counter.
She curtseyed to him (young ladies made 
 an unusually emphatic horse, denying th
ugh it included all the four expressions
"Shall I show her to you? Will you come 
of the chickens of the Cock-lane brood.
 habitation within the great foul nest o
ho had not removed his gaze from the sho
 been hurriedly pushed aside, and fell d
lly. It was told me by the Bank that the
c streets? Is there--tell me thou--is th
 price that you put _your_ prayers at!"
e to a man who was sitting for his portr
and a fair land journey, you will be soo
acid, and beautiful.
dth of another line.
hest beneath his seat, in which there we
d the inheritance of any part of the ago
The Night Shadows      Chapter IV     Th
at pair of shoes to-day?"
e got holsters to that saddle o' yourn, 
 at the shoe with some little passing to
"Sir."
h to get you to it!--Joe!"
them in;--and immediately afterwards lea
across it, three or four times, before h
rdinary tight-fitting fashion, and to ha
ch was only after heavy rains, and then 
eat apparent calmness and repose of spir
cter about Madame Defarge, from which on
his unfathomable water, wherein, as mome
 cares, like second-hand clothes, come e
d looked out at the rising sun. There wa
om, it was the age of foolishness, it wa
"
Temple Bar: where, with the addition of 
"You speak collectedly, and you--_are_ c
"Indeed, sir!"
.
     A Companion Picture      Chapter XI
minutes, ringing those measured changes 
 gentleman from Tellson's.
ssion returned to his forehead, he seeme
taircase was gained, and they stopped fo
 such shapes to the mare as arose out of
s, the night shadows outside the coach w
walk on a little ahead into the mist and
 little flaxen wig at the ears, and foll
 breath, and holding the breath, and hav
put to Death; the coiner of a bad shilli
time pressed, for the day was drawing to
o and fetch things? I'll let you know, i
 with a fair sea voyage, and a fair land
 drinking of healths, shaking of hands, 
th this second salutation, he threw a bo
 his portrait.
 I have had trouble enough to get you to
es just outside the door of the wine-sho
Miss Manette, "as to leave us here. You 
mposed he has become, and you cannot be 
 hid him somewhere till he was old. They
 He stopped there, and faced round.
enough perhaps to be heard; but at any r
erest, nothing like sentiment. I have pa
lishness, it was the epoch of belief, it
ed, was still lighted up under the quain
wine, and hot coffee. Monsieur Defarge p
 on him.
lord to the lowest stable non-descript, 
He did not begin, but, in his indecision
 The passenger would then start to himse
toriety that has since attached to it. B
t a going to be blest out of house and h
 a poor devil of a honest tradesman met 
"There is nothing to apprehend. I belong
as they began ascending the stairs.
me and friends in such a tone before lyi
The shoemaker looked up as before, but w
After such imaginary discourse, the pass
 They had stopped when the coach stopped
 of a door, and who were intently lookin
That he had no recollection whatever of 
ith their turnkeys, and the majesty of t
s heart. The joker rapped it with his ow
 scoops of their two hands joined, and s
writing up his joke, he called to him ac
 Death; the holder of a horse at Tellson
attle in its throat, you fell into Tells
s travelling cloaks and wrappers, bread 
There was an immediate dispersal for the
again, when his eyes caught the skirt of
amps--swinging ever brighter in the bett
ng surface was before), and resumed his 
pon an elderly gentleman and a young lad
again: not with any interest or curiosit
     Chapter XII    The Fellow of Delica
wer the window, to get the reality of mi
to Jerry the messenger.
funereal manner with black horsehair, an
 not only carriage and horses to be seen
and the mob fired on the musketeers, and
A large cask of wine had been dropped an
e of the Christian name, Madame Defarge,
ddressing Monsieur Defarge, "that many o
come to a stop, besides once drawing the
lude the troublesome consequence, that n
ach was hidden under almost as many wrap
 may be snatched out of the mouth of her
d handed in his letter through a trap in
"Of it? What?"
"It is true," said Defarge, who was knee
swered Monsieur Defarge.
oughout; and between the cups and saucer
 was it! How was it!"
out. The man who had left his saw sticki
came to the side of the mail, where the 
 faces, and many naked feet, and many wo
eliver to the night watchman in his box 
ness of his face would have caused them 
hand to his neck, and took off a blacken
ing in the pockets of the coat he carrie
tions of Want. The butcher and the porkm
 the ancient clerk, turning his surprise
himself, that Friday night in November, 
There were a king with a large jaw and a
her, she left you, at two years old, to 
nt drops of oil.
sman, it wouldn't suit _your_ line of bu
y attracted the notice of Mr. Lorry, who
rities; the two bad sources combined mad
 and feebler over-swinging lamps, out un
miss, in turning an immense pecuniary Ma
t was much the dearer. Therefore, all th
t of ancestral wisdom, systematically le
 "'Wait at Dover for Mam'selle.' It's no
le grinding and regrinding in the mill, 
 his place, with half-shut eyes, the lit
"I hope you care to live?"
 been at it from morning to night to pre
other for scores of our customers. These
 of him; then, upward at the speaker.
iver it to greater authorities within, t
the awfulness, even of Death itself, is 
 station on this windy March morning, wi
r?"
n the main one face, and every head was 
ack, without contradicting.
 and manner, his daughter fell upon her 
who had been dug out, and wondering what
y had it lost the life and resonance of 
ne achievements as sentencing a youth to
 be, the expression deepened itself as s
imself by the other four, "in consequenc
 was before her, but she had laid it dow
and protection to justify much national 
He had sunk in her arms, and his face dr
adth between them. Good-humoured looking
, they came all at once in sight of thre
 while your poor heart pined away, weep 
ig, dig--now with a spade, now with a gr
fresh complexion who has got to the end 
he concealment of her large earrings. He
urse of the forenoon, the head drawer at
e unlucky by _your_ sneaking. If you mus
birthday, of whom a prophetic private in
re close behind him, and about to follow
ice himself, and pulled him off the benc
of which flew up your nose and down your
ed down in the rain to do honour to a di
ung by a rope and pulley; at night, when
 The uncontrollable and hopeless mass of
 that the fact was exactly the reverse--
, he exclaimed, in a voice of dire exasp
wers were for ever lost to him, and what
mith's tools, a couple of torches, and a
 As I was saying--"
ea did what it liked, and what it liked 
er neck. Advancing his hand by little an
at about two in the afternoon, sir. Bed,
s robbed in peace; that magnificent pote
 at that date, was a choice illustration
d Mr. Lorry roused the captive, and assi
resence of pain under an opiate) was alw
Pull off gentleman's boots in Concord. (
s young companion's agitation, which bec
ous as a kind of deadly inn-yard, from w
, were caught of the jumbled neighbourho
ce, and his sobs strike against my heart
enger opened the coach-door and got in; 
that met his own with an inquiring look,
hat iron rust from? He don't get no iron
de.
ith that completeness that if the coach-
ime, it was vile indeed to unaccustomed 
or monsieur's information?"
Cramped in all kinds of dim cupboards an
er place to write such words in?"
arrived from London, and would be happy 
soner is. These are not the hands she kn
and wandering thoughts suggested.
glance. The young forehead lifted itself
e small modicum of firewood that the man
essages, as the spirits of this very yea
als; now, hanging a housebreaker on Satu
?" asked Defarge, motioning to Mr. Lorry
 Madame Defarge was a stout woman of abo
d the real message returned, would all b
nt, and open the coach-door to let the p
he look and the action had occupied but 
e floor on the other side of him; then, 
He had put up a hand between his eyes an
ds knitted into the likeness of the gall
. The arrival of his breakfast roused hi
Book the Second--the Golden Thread
" With that advice, he wiped his soiled 
ry, which the Farmer, Death, had already
 he and his two companions ascended high
who is dead, you learn that I have to kn
 seen, became again charged with mist an
 words for it, they came to him coherent
"I am not a shoemaker by trade? No, I wa
forger was put to Death; the utterer of 
 a low bench, stooping forward and very 
 of filling up blank forms for the consi
nks or holes in the wall. On hearing foo
 sawn into boards, to make a certain mov
y of light fell into the garret, and sho
 torches, and a tinder-box. For he was f
ude the cold, one half of this door was 
stockings fitted sleek and close, and we
s it was--quite deliberately, as having 
nly one adventurous traveller left be co
 her face. The two spectators started fo
nted by his son: a grisly urchin of twel
had suffered so intensely from this caus
ped his soiled hand upon the joker's dre
The faintness of the voice was pitiable 
breath, and having the pulses quickened 
 of which, a hospital procession of negr
ho had emerged into the winter light fro
"It is so, Jacques," Monsieur Defarge re
yebrows and his confused white hair, tho
 every farthing porringer of husky chips
ay with his tribe. It missed its mark, a
The three customers pulled off their hat
tionably seen, for a single moment, the 
uick, I will."
ce, moreover, in the moral attribute tha
es?"
he bank passenger--with an arm drawn thr
, and was extremely anxious to see the g
ng at his father's side, carried every m
A wonderful fact to reflect upon, that e
 his feet and on his bench. He had a whi
"Did you hear the message?"
"I speak, miss, of twenty years ago. He 
ents, and having looked to the supplemen
 wondering what subtle powers were for e
"Nothing yet."
Book the Third--the Track of a Storm
ust before. It opened from a stinking li
 up the window, draw his arm securely th
him by the table between them and the fi
 passenger by the mail, and passengers b
x. For he was furnished with that comple
nner. I am as rickety as a hackney-coach
was shred into atomics in every farthing
ery posting-house and ale-house could pr
 more, sir."
nter, they were gone; but they had been 
It was the best of times, it was the wor
 a mail journey from London in winter wa
 my friend?" said Mr. Lorry, surprised.
t she was sinking.
-"
h a plain face, on the throne of England
-chest, and, having looked to the rest o
at, am I? Why don't you go and fetch thi
story. It is likely enough that in the r
 or inflicting. The trade signs (and the
short, and they were soon at the top. Th
 walls.
er should be locked in an eternal frost,
ry, with the note in his hand. Mr. Lorry
k off a blackened string with a scrap of
tures that approached them, had dammed i
 at night, when the lamplighter had let 
Mr. Lorry came silently forward, leaving
"But, consider. Is he fit for the journe
In a very clear and pleasant young voice
take the word she had repeated, when he 
runches looking about, as if he rather e
n his arms on the passage across that ve
ct the other way-- in short, the period 
ed.
is, for all reasons, best out of France.
knitted with nimble fingers and steady e
side of him which was not the side on wh
and restless interval, until dawn, they 
 me thou--is there no other place to wri
 the two tall candles, he saw standing t
sh for walking exercise, under the circu
im, without first looking down on this s
ure too, or a great Stilton cheese, came
er hand, as if with an involuntary actio
ves were rolled up, too, and his brown a
 mysterious penalty of "letting them kno
trayed to his lips as he looked at it (h
he stairs.
it was clearer than crystal to the lords
on, than the gentleman in brown. His bre
dark hair. He was a dark man altogether,
Madame Defarge, his wife, sat in the sho
 a young English lady, Miss Manette?"
 out in something, singly, if they kept 
e, and was near flood. Small tradesmen, 
or them, no chance of them. I pass my wh
nd who my mother was, and who my father,
CONTENTS
was dark, and he sat before the coffee-r
But, the question reminded him of his wo
 and of my father who is living, and of 
c obstinacy with a weak rattle in its th
inquiring look, and a forehead with a si
Monsieur Defarge, in a stern voice, to M
s scene of action, with the skill of a m
The shoemaker stopped his work; looked w
 out of France. Say, shall I hire a carr
They were consigned to me, with him, at 
 motion to the coach, as if it were in a
 and the keeper of the wine-shop going s
f the year of our Lord as Anna Dominoes:
nsider it.
re, assist you on that side. That's well
with mud, from the hoofs of the horse to
e truth."
 strong rooms, the real express sent aft
ht have thought, expressly to lame all l
 her too soon." Sometimes, it was given 
er breast: a sight so touching, yet so t
s at once, so that, from the very door, 
jostling group or crowd, according to it
ieur Defarge returned.
en choused this last week into as bad lu
hter's drawing her arm through his, and 
hall tell you of my name, and of my fath
with it, that there might have been a sc
d before him. For the rest, the Old Bail
ingers that clasped him in so violent a 
g-rooms; musketeers went into St. Giles'
l weight of the establishment.
 was stowed away among the neighbouring 
 sir.) Fetch barber to Concord. Stir abo
re."
 weep for it! If you touch, in touching 
r afterwards, seemed to be concentrated 
n of his daily routine of employment, Mr
self, then on that, as if he had lost th
But not for long. Releasing his arm, she
ter not to mention the subject, anywhere
ned itself as she took her seat thoughtf
, with your leave, relate to you, miss, 
hwayman.
 itself,--and was almost as in-looking.
ind a fine sea-coal fire, sir.) Fetch ba
ceived the added appellation of Jerry.
ike any other door of French constructio
"Hallo you!"
g for his portrait, Mr. Lorry dropped of
roperty of my poor father, whom I never 
eper inclination and of contracted dimen
"Say, then, my Gaspard, what do you do t
ehead with a singular capacity (remember
o Domini seventeen hundred and eighty. (
beast thought of the possibility of turn
After a long silence, the head was lifte
t would be dangerous. Better not to ment
 one of those darkly clustered houses en
Encamped at a quarter before nine, in go
 it agin!"
e still looked at her, and gloomily shoo
n, are you?"
rally so. His yellow rags of shirt lay o
now!"
years, it was you who brought me to Engl
he senses like a once beautiful colour f
, and put her hand to his lips. It was a
kets, passed along on his way to his bre
you hear in my voice any resemblance to 
vice altogether. My credentials, entries
ers of one of his hands strayed to his l
hoemaking.
ad worked them down, was the mill that g
for years overlooked, or always designed
"Is he always alone, then?"
to night to prevent me from being the be
in other hands at that time, sir."
y's breathless reflection, simultaneousl
 it, Joe?"
and child, and not in opposition to 'em.
 direct light and air, faded down to suc
, miss; either word will do."
 Your money came out of, or went into, w
r young face of her who had crept along 
t it was the faintness of solitude and d
"How goes it, Jacques?" said one of thes
raries, had taken so many lives, that, i
ouched. "This is Mam'selle!" said he.
re and convenience.
ashing along by its side. They had stopp
"You are not the gaoler's daughter?"
" after which the mail was robbed in pea
ig, it is to be presumed, was made of ha
ull Tellson flavour and blue-mould upon 
d all visible things with a brooding loo
s there a sleeper more inscrutable than 
his work.
 bitter taste it is that such poor cattl
r face expressed such deep anxiety, and,
"Is he alone?" the latter whispered.
"A-a-a-business, business!" he urged, wi
re on his head than his own crisply-curl
r and of amused voices--voices of men, w
hat he had occasion to change the instru
 down softly, as he sat staring at her.
 traffic in Fleet-street, with their two
Mr. Lorry was so exceedingly disconcerte
o the young lady, "This is our man."
r," said Defarge, getting down, and taki
ave no feelings; I am a mere machine. To
 it. This is a secret service altogether
e tainted crowd, dispersed up and down t
 will be true to you with all my duty an
"That's all. He wishes to have a messeng
ud of its darkness, proud of its uglines
been drinking in the wine-shop.
keness passed away, like a breath along 
vention--it might almost have been worth
spread.
im and the next.
 expression in the forehead, which had s
ller left be congratulated: for the two 
Gutenberg License included with this eBo
what lay in it to keep him from pounding
stablishment in question, "than I, as a 
 fire were not wanting among them; nor c
, there to communicate with a gentleman 
d some pleasure in the mere sound of his
 little difficult. Better to begin slowl
In a very few minutes the waiter came in
ubbing of his chin and signing with his 
suspected everybody else, and the coachm
her head, and giving them a quick look. 
ing by the counter lengthening out a sho
ich was as delicate and fine as it was p
thick mud, floundering and stumbling bet
 likeliest thing upon the cards. So the 
eneral public entrance to a great pile o
"What the devil do _you_ do in that gall
The passenger booked by this history, wa
"I have been free, I have been happy, ye
out me, not a scrap of writing openly re
her forehead. So close was her hold upon
ay, ranging from the landlord to the low
the passengers beat loud enough perhaps 
ayed and countermined and religiously ci
 coat he carried over his shoulder, took
o may come here at any time to-day. She 
 pair of moist bright eyes that it must 
 of the day.
 the father and daughter from the ground
s her hold upon his arm, that he feared 
brought with them, besides travelling cl
s famous, too, for the pillory, a wise o
some gruff coughing and rubbing of his c
starved fingers and toes, or in those of
 "in consequence of the failure of his a
 of Paris, would be bad enough now; but,
equence, that nothing that ever was, was
n and have no friend who could go with m
ots covered with clay.
and they will know that I received this,
"You might treble that, and say a hundre
, all of you!"
"Well! And hallo you!" said Jerry, more 
 crooked town of Dover hid itself away f
nto the room in advance of the inn serva
 start to himself, and lower the window,
ht."
is Lorry twice stopped to rest. Each of 
ob-man, an occasional porter and messeng
 repeated blowings of his nose, "all cou
er IX     The Game Made      Chapter X  
do in that galley there?" said Monsieur 
iful mother, you have, my son. You've go
way.
t lay before them.
d visibly passed over his frame; he laid
urishes. She acknowledged their homage b
"A--a matter of business. You confuse me
With drooping heads and tremulous tails,
r France shook the rags of the scarecrow
e carved or branded into her forehead. S
 for sale. Hunger rattled its dry bones 
o Calais, tomorrow, drawer?"
he had been spirited away; if it had not
he midst of them, the hangman, ever busy
ed chair cut down, which stool, young Je
 and sixty, with the breadth of a county
rom it, and that we go to England to be 
 faces of a man of five-and-forty by yea
nd smeared over it. "Why do you write in
espattered with rustic mire, snuffed abo
 Hand at Cards      Chapter IX     The G
ith mildly quavering speech. "Who wants 
"That's right, that's right. Courage! Bu
ion of Jerry.
sarcastic sparks from the whirling grind
 and myriads of small creatures--the cre
sed its mark, and completely failed, as 
aughter, sir."
ht. Courage! Business! You have business
ds (which was most unnecessary, for noth
white hair, though they had been really 
 afterwards leaned against the door-post
t is."
. This is to tell him you are there."
 in a whisper.
ide, and fell down over her neck. Advanc
that a famished traveller, wearied out b
 or in those of her child, returned to i
mode. I have had a pattern in my hand." 
wn to the passenger (and it was not a li
 his saw sticking in the firewood he was
in a dark place, like a cheese, until he
is neck the arm that shook upon his shou
Enough; you are English; that is another
inhabited by a great number of people. I
musketeers, and the musketeers fired on 
honoured in five minutes than even Tells
y. He will then let you in."
omfort."
ot an every day or an every night look, 
d, remarking to himself with less intern
 world to go over.
live. Your father has been taken to the 
y presence--nobles of great power all of
ter in the better streets, and ever dimm
will serve pretty nicely at about two in
est or curiosity, but with a dull mechan
"Bust me, if she ain't at it agin!"
d these upon my sleeve. 'You will leave 
in.
his history, was on the coach-step, gett
 for it! And if, when I shall tell you o
, and saw nothing.
dying man.
ure in sight of all his retinue; prisone
d casting his breeches and gaiters into 
e that will attract Mr. Lorry's attentio
oughened forehead was very intent upon h
ked into a gridiron-pattern by fingers, 
 Indeed they were at sea, and the ship a
le young, shivered at every corner, pass
a low voice, "I entreat you, good gentle
Rendered in a manner desperate, by her s
 gentleman had left London, but I think 
 years old, to grow to be blooming, beau
 my good friend, and leave the law to ta
 older and wiser he was than she. He mad
"Am I not?" Mr. Lorry opened his hands, 
 be done, and hurrying away to do it.
etinue; prisoners in London gaols fought
which were always under a shower-bath of
all of a red colour, and to have red hai
A TALE OF TWO CITIES
 tangle of shaggy wrapper, flapping hat,
 Crime, were put to Death. Not that it d
ked up for the purpose, and smeared over
distrustfully.
in the hundreds of thousands of breasts 
 those days, so the street outside Newga
ve caused them to look large, under his 
orm of Lead. So now let's look at you."
m a stinking little black courtyard, and
stool, young Jerry, walking at his fathe
hut himself up inside, keep the flint an
siness confidence.
hout first wandering in this manner, and
    Still Knitting      Chapter XVII   O
 the smokeless chimneys, and started up 
ked wall than a head of hair, that the b
and was stooping to work again, when his
earest wall.
y the other two passengers, who immediat
t has never haunted me!"
s hard enough to kill him, but it's wery
ect for the mad hospital?" said the wine
-shop.
"Into the court."
 at the guard, handed the passenger a sm
"I hope you care to be recalled to life?
 he should have been of a hot temperamen
ing." This time, a pair of haggard eyes 
ed coffee-houses, and theatre-doors, to 
ave believed in such a miraculous presen
o him, and what were capable of restorat
"Hold then! True!" muttered her husband.
ld be gleaned from any passing vehicle t
d the other, in the same low voice.
g shot instantly as a highwayman.
Beneath that arch of unmoved and eternal
s--and He was--before the slow years of 
 love, or by your little children, were 
n's Bank. You must know Tellson's Bank i
" said the wine-shop keeper, crossing th
 of black mahogany, and no light to spea
 who my father, and how I never knew the
a little moment."
 (though in stronger characters) on her 
, trustee of one kind or other for score
This being another question hard to answ
xpress sent after him, and the real mess
sk, had acquired a tigerish smear about 
iving my father only two years, it was y
 blooming, beautiful, and happy, without
l hope the best. Still, alive. Your fath
from the eyes of the body, of his two co
yet I'm none the better for it in pocket
r?"
d again, he struck twice or thrice upon 
isted of a wooden stool, made out of a b
nce drawing the coach across the road, w
 and drank what they gave him to eat and
ave supposed sick fish went up to be dip
g to a subject of last night.
iness. In the meantime, his son, whose h
ct upon, that every human creature is co
ts had no great possession, and that wha
Mr. Lorry quietly chafed the hands that 
his mother, strongly deprecated any pray
 this door was fast closed, and the othe
 pushed out of the tall houses, in the w
ted state. Pride, contempt, defiance, st
f the man.
I am going to Paris on business. A crown
breaker on Saturday who had been taken o
n on his cheek.
eart out in prison, or wasted there thro
er's boy of sixpence.
eleven."
life or wholesome aspirations.
They hanged at Tyburn, in those days, so
"I forget what it was you asked me. What
s the door, and his face towards the win
chens and sculleries, and fretted all th
e and hope--so exactly was the expressio
ou have seen, to a chosen few."
ilthy street that had no offal, among it
 over him in a few seconds. He had no go
ient places of business. Tellson's (they
, the waiter shifted his napkin from his
nd hot water to Concord. Pull off gentle
k upon his shoulder, lifted her a little
ble, and not only possible, but done--do
 There was a special companionship in it
of men carried on the business gravely. 
lose to his head: which wig, it is to be
t if the coach-lamps had been blown and 
 his, and he put it with some ceremony t
" repeated Mr. Cruncher. "They ain't wor
 the note to Mr. Lorry, and do you make 
they stopped for the third time. There w
e of the gaunt pier-glass behind her, on
 and, casting up his eyes at the guard, 
 the earth was cold and wet, the sky was
 there, and can show the way. Gentlemen,
 Lord Mayor of London, was made to stand
yes rested on these things, a sudden viv
en Thread
ighbourhood, and were but two in number,
from his corner, and begged the favour o
er and more crowded parts of Paris, woul
her, as the waves of an unwholesome sea 
 daughter?"
, and the three other horses followed su
 way, and to remove him--for a while at 
ws of that region should have watched th
 face, that it looked as though it had p
 passenger a small folded paper. The rid
r shop, better than most others in its a
 it. Consequently, another drawer, and t
 from this cause before her little child
been no new discovery, of money, or of a
in his shirt) took this very ill, and, t
 joke with immense significance, as is o
she communicated some reassurance to Mr.
tunate gentleman, the Doctor of Beauvais
, the room or rooms within every door th
fidential. I was at that time in our Fre
 spoilt and sickly vapours seemed to cra
ls and weapons; but, the cutler's knives
cross the water there; for instance, the
ky hair looking as if it must tear the s
se at seeing another figure, but the uns
 an eye and a hand on the arm-chest befo
 a fineness in accordance with his stock
d upon her with a frightful suddenness. 
ldest of men made your cheque shake as i
o Paris, there were sheltered from the w
rs, unless upon an errand, and then he w
d no fear of his striking at her with th
?"
ny there.
-shoe. It is in the present mode. I neve
olden yellow still remained upon the tre
be flatter than its shining surface was 
e shoes ever since."
He walked up hill in the mire by the sid
t again.
ith a handful of mud, picked up for the 
of a nightcap than in it, scrawled upon 
or the shoe that had been taken from him
 like a larger dog-kennel. Mr. Lorry, th
"But he has been--been found. He is aliv
as it began the descent. The guard soon 
and demanded to know if I would take him
been blown and stormed out, which did oc
and agreed for the time to tamper with h
sion of monks which passed within his vi
ul suddenness. But she sat perfectly sti
gh these means, that it was difficult, o
y disturbed that poor woman at intervals
, and the heavy shadow of Temple Bar. If
 just as I pass from one of our customer
The last burst carried the mail to the s
, work of that kind was being done in th
s in Concord. (You will find a fine sea-
me to-day. She may ask for Mr. Jarvis Lo
 GUTENBERG EBOOK A TALE OF TWO CITIES **
  A Sight      Chapter III    A Disappoi
r book that I loved, and vainly hope in 
rt could trace him; if he had an enemy i
h his finger dipped in muddy wine-lees--
s for suggesting improvements in laws an
 it was the worst of times, it was the a
ur father soon wore his heart out in pri
k. Hush!"
 objectionable, but were only the more r
ts of the two great towers of Notre-Dame
ed themselves to be the three of one nam
e.
ten in every small loaf of his scanty st
 any inquiries, because it would be dang
n a soothing tone, bringing his left han
n those days), with a pretty desire to c
e a certain movable framework with a sac
n, and show the door-keeper this note fo
piritual than her sister of the shield a
"I hope there ain't, but I can't make so
rbed, and his heaving breast and shaken 
oining of hands and dancing, a dozen tog
pital itself every night; families were 
, and the hedge at the roadside retreati
took a young man into Tellson's London h
into St. Giles's, to search for contraba
"What's _he_ got to do with the case?" a
amphlets at the door of Westminster Hall
hrough the head and rode away; the mail 
 wheels of the mail were no longer withi
ed the passenger, then, with mildly quav
nomy, that, whereas he often came home a
ittle reservoirs of mud and water, had n
op stood looking at him, a white-haired 
 hair: not more than one or two long gol
"Is that all?"
my fellow-creatures are mere business re
r of the wine-shop had stood outside it,
ou tell her what you had to tell her, wi
"Ten minutes, good, past eleven."
 the Christian name was completed at the
ecipe much in vogue with all trades and 
the afternoon, and the air, which had be
"Tom!" softly over the coach roof.
to. I suppose so. I don't know."
pposite another wigged gentleman with hi
that he could only look on, at a distanc
hich most kinds of debauchery and villai
e gives on the little courtyard close to
e      Chapter VII    Monseigneur in Tow
rst I thought it quite hopeless, but I h
stematically leading to the most frightf
 chewing, and cogitated.
h that in the rough outhouses of some ti
ompass of one lumbering old mail coach; 
table, among the gentlemen in wigs: not 
 than useless to seek to know whether he
beholders covered their faces.
 asked me. What did you say?"
Yet even when his eyes were opened on th
 general were settled for ever.
 many eccentric fits, into the houses. A
nt down on one knee to the child of his 
hen the horses were unyoked; beyond, a q
 to his left, dropped into a comfortable
 associating place with sound; he never 
down his empty drinking vessel and smack
. Is there no old banker, no old busines
l peopled by rags and nightcaps, and all
ere afraid of being found out in somethi
self."
taking the life of an atrocious murderer
"Ye-es, sir," returned Jerry, in somethi
g sun. There was a ridge of ploughed lan
r two hands to her lips, and kissed them
 rest. Each of these stoppages was made 
s attentively, and his eyes in gloomy ab
our expressions--as his eyes rested on t
 two in number, even if a closet with a 
 with their two heads as near to one ano
es, were entirely in Tellson's hands. In
ng his arm, she laid her hand upon his s
himself lest he should hurt her; therefo
e in the middle of the forehead, gradual
 of so strong a piscatory flavour that o
 Will you come and see her?"
s before, but without removing a hand fr
ul. It was not the faintness of physical
little shop, with two little counters, w
ady face, strong features, and great com
ch feebler sympathy and humility, while 
Daring burglaries by armed men, and high
y seated himself on the stool, entered o
cripples, were offering black baskets of
it had roamed in its forlornness up the 
and started up from the filthy street th
of our customers to another in the cours
hter's hand and clasped his head again.
 and softening to behold in action; also
he daughter's waist, and held her; for h
 many shillings in twenty guineas, it wo
young, too blooming. It can't be. See wh
With this hurried adjuration, he cocked 
rry.
looked back and the guard looked back, a
part of the agony she had known the pain
rest--along the roads that lay before th
ed the encampment for the day. On this p
ole, but implacable-looking, too; eviden
al to the lords of the State preserves o
te; but they were all the faces of a man
re a king with a large jaw and a queen w
time in our French House, and had been--
larger sort of dog.
the uncertainty you leave me in at this 
lves to the sodden and lee-dyed pieces o
ng agin your father's prosperity. You've
 and the coachman was sure of nothing bu
e times when the tide made, and was near
perplexity, or wonder, or alarm, or mere
e out of a grave.
rvals clear enough to allow the French c
im; but, he was so confused, and so very
s seemed to crawl in. Through the rusted
I am not so much to look at, am I? Why d
ard, in gruff soliloquy. "Hallo you!"
"If you please, sir."
the dingiest of windows, which were alwa
rge, under his yet dark eyebrows and his
ard fare no doubt had their part in it. 
ravelling papers; and as time pressed, f
plough upon it where it had been left la
o which the storm called Life must hush 
 which there were a few smith's tools, a
"Story!"
resemblance to a voice that once was swe
bore a considerable resemblance to a pai
eight loaded horse-pistols, deposited on
remulous tails, they mashed their way th
 manners of an earlier date, as he made 
 not even to keep him off and shut out t
cquainted with it could have believed in
d exceedingly bright eyes. The hollownes
f his personal board.
 now, burning people in the hand at Newg
e door.
earful look, and after a while his lips 
op, always going a little in advance, an
face and hair, he would suddenly fan awa
e shadows of the night revealed themselv
 and to bless me. Kiss me, kiss me! O my
f the reckonings over which she presided
tive. It had not lasted a minute, when h
 was already scrubbed throughout; and be
 age, with a watchful eye that seldom se
he women who had left on a door-step the
, if it suited his pleasure and convenie
"
Mr. Lorry.
of one of our customers."
er this note for Mr. Lorry. He will then
on, when I enter a great city by night, 
"I can't say."
way. Finally, with a deep long sigh, he 
was here diverted to the door-keeper, wh
e poor young lady, by laying a brawny ha
y own time have known the boldest people
, looking steadfastly at him.
raw and rag and wood and paper; Hunger w
ight eye observantly upon her, "good day
 closed the door, locked it on the insid
vate topics of uneasiness. They seemed t
e taken away--"
etting them know" something not mentione
ers suspected one another and the guard,
, Mr. Cruncher was as well known to Flee
er's saying grace with particular animos
sh smear about the mouth; and one tall j
mpatient movement from one of the two pa
"Worth no more than that," repeated Mr. 
trees, when that sufferer was put to dea
opened a little further, and secured at 
, whenever the coach got a special jolt-
 the harness, and the mud, and the mail,
e coach stopped, and they kept close com
rer who had robbed a farmer's boy of six
randa, are all comprehended in the one l
 the door, and mounting nimbly to his pl
woman as a third. It was a very muddy bo
ny more than if I was a speaking machine
tives, and she softly laid the patient o
to ease his spent horse, but to wipe the
nged for our leaving Paris at once, so t
e relief, all the happiness you bring to
titution, very humanising and softening 
he coarsest of meagre loaves. The people
bour is dead, my love, the darling of my
or it in pocket; and it's my suspicion t
ol was a vile place, in which most kinds
that she was the person referred to.
he looked into the room and said somethi
ten came home after banking hours with c
tinous intent of taking it back to Black
that the bread-and-butter may be snatche
t were left uncorrupted, seemed to escap
gave him to wear. He readily responded t
de. To whom, likewise, the shadows of th
f it would be red upon many there.
into the other world: traversing some tw
he hands she knew, this is not the face 
 been brought from his prison to that ho
Jerry! I say, Jerry! You'd be in a Blazi
mstance connected with Mr. Cruncher's do
k him when she did so, and visibly passe
uly I spoke of myself just now, in sayin
 Manette, emerging from the wine-shop th
ge, and he saw the carriage waiting in t
ark room, furnished in a funereal manner
 feelings, and that all the relations I 
vement, with their many little reservoir
ough the crevice in the wall. Soon raisi
 be taken down and sliced before his own
on the general staircase--left its own h
and his face dropped on her breast: a si
d lifted itself into that singular expre
h mud got taken up along with it, that t
Mr. Jarvis Lorry--sitting opposite the b
ehend. I belong to Tellson's Bank. You m
ry. "Yes--I--"
d; but at any rate, the quiet pause was 
 taken from him, Mr. Lorry said, still l
tes, rather than glimpses, were caught o
urned to it when she spoke.
, one cold time, when the hail drifted h
"What do you say, Tom?"
corrupted its good polish in a day or tw
ner of occasionally clasping his head in
All the people within reach had suspende
thpick, coughed another grain of cough, 
 window that was nearest Temple Bar: whe
 then his inside will be taken out and b
 fifteen years since we--since I--came l
ed him in a whisper, with a little anger
s a tendency to throw him out of work. M
nd seven hundred and seventy-five, lumbe
"Not of Beauvais?"
m. I pass my whole life, miss, in turnin
 of my establishment. But, now that I re
 her head down on the hard ground close 
tte!"
"You had abandoned all hope of being dug
dead; it is the inexorable consolidation
uttered in every vestige of a garment th
ather!" and, after raising this fictitio
 stood close by one another, as his fath
ain.
ples that visibly followed and oversprea
 and wept all night, because the love of
credit, avoid all naming of the matter. 
htening her to death? Look at her, with 
silently disappeared; if he had been spi
I hint to you of a Home that is before u
 know."
er mail?"
to Life
was much on a par with the Country; whic
Book the Second--the Golden Thread
 eyes and a good bold breadth between th
apter XIII   The Fellow of no Delicacy  
hey came forward to raise the father and
 child whom he had held in his arms on t
ove of dim wicks swung in a sickly manne
o lay the spectral face upon her warm yo
hild, would you? Not you!" and throwing 
n passing, of his destination, and went 
e come here to take you from it, and tha
ort, slight, pretty figure, a quantity o
icance, as is often the way with his tri
nt everywhere. Hunger was pushed out of 
e may only ask for a gentleman from Tell
 a little anger:
t he would be frightened--rave--tear him
 families were publicly cautioned not to
 a quick look. Then she glanced in a cas
That's good!" (Though his manner was les
m me, weep for it, weep for it! Weep for
 moved his chair to it:
is son, whose head was garnished with te
ne of his stained shoes jerked off his f
conceive the idea of improving on his me
s right; as soon as that was done, he mu
flaxen wig at the ears, "It is very diff
e it in his breast; but he still looked 
Tellson's Bank had a run upon it in the 
far at sea. A face habitually suppressed
 into as bad luck as ever a poor devil o
 its dry bones among the roasting chestn
"I received a letter from the Bank, sir,
siness day; in short, I have no feelings
I. Five Years Later
n in my hand." He glanced at the shoe wi
air, and cast a troubled look towards th
rved expression of Tellson's Bank. He ha
her bow.
 moved away, to descend again; and a glo
ne ghost had been laid only a round doze
OLUTION
"You know that you are recalled to life?
ed with her radiant hair, which warmed a
tried to help women, who bent over their
 lives, that, if the heads laid low befo
Miss Manette had taken some refreshment 
 for when I stepped out, is on the fifth
!"
s ascended higher and higher.
"What o'clock do you make it, Joe?"
d said to him, whether he knew that he w
nsieur Defarge going first with the lamp
could go with me, I should esteem it hig
he guard shot three dead, and then got s
Knitting      Chapter XVI    Still Knitt
rning to find the same boots covered wit
of the matter. I carry about me, not a s
 putting to death was a recipe much in v
d them again, a feeble grove of dim wick
Guards had heralded the sublime appearan
 They tried speaking to him; but, he was
ed Mr. Lorry.
 you conceited female," said Mr. Crunche
to propose to another to walk on a littl
to be that profound secret and mystery t
in his face, nor any openness of aspect 
articular case, and left nothing else co
, here and now, is, that I pray to you t
ed but a very little way. Such a scanty 
ant young voice; a little foreign in its
ng of a surface black, with no depth in 
 VI     Hundreds of People      Chapter 
f, and he'll be cut into quarters. That'
m, had dammed it into little pools; thes
thful Jerry were as restlessly watchful 
came to the determination of sparing the
 few."
re, but the unsteady fingers of one of h
d, and required none then, and was extre
u could hardly blink at it in the dismal
d had stained the ground of the narrow s
almost sure it was you."
hen you reflect that I have never seen y
tion to him: but as no help came from th
 glinted in the sunlight far at sea. A f
w to inquire which; worse than useless t
ne-shop going straight to this one when 
"But I would hold a pretty wager, sir, t
keep his own counsel, and to keep his ha
 guineas, it would be so encouraging. I 
ooden drawers, particles of which flew u
d driven from his sacred countenance, th
case, Monsieur Defarge bent down on one 
t it, two or three times, as if to be su
ong while, and I have made shoes ever si
terchange the inquiry, "What do you thin
 manner was less satisfied than his word
 mist, it made its slow way through the 
erry standing by him, when not engaged i
e middle in two pieces, like any other d
avour of one of them remaining. But, as 
 little way, and allowed Mr. Jerry Crunc
ed like a walnut-shell.
nd forwards betwixt London and Paris, si
spersal for these restoratives, and she 
o playing cards, two playing dominoes, t
V. The Wine-shop
ng a general pretence of being asleep. W
und under another name; his own, long fo
 with as complete an appearance of satis
bject, anywhere or in any way, and to re
ur breast when you were young and free, 
way. Gentlemen, adieu!"
eated, when he added, in a hurry, "Yes, 
f rifting and knitting itself into an ex
the coach, added to the stillness of the
the very door, he could be taken away--"
 he came to his breakfast. He resented M
"Of his own desire?"
, and had a quantity of bright shawl twi
e. It was so like Smith's work, so much 
scription on passing boys who were small
 found himself next to.
roasting chestnuts in the turned cylinde
By that time, there was only one adventu
er and to you. There has been no new dis
he knew about them), opened before him, 
oemaker by trade. I-I learnt it here. I 
 the rest and silence into which the sto
 slowly.
seat.
ad been left last night when the horses 
ilitary lanterns, and one of them being 
ok at anything, a large hand heavily rin
n early job to begin with!"
; if he had suddenly and silently disapp
cribe the kind of shoe, for monsieur's i
"They tell me so."
ety. But, perhaps the confidential bache
w good citizens, if any. So powerful is 
with that decoration, being of a surface
hrough the night. He was on his way to d
tage, remarked:
"Courage, dear miss! Courage! Business! 
ese had been oiled and oiled, until the 
s--emblem to humanity, of the rest and s
s accessories, in the older and more cro
"If, without disturbing him," she said, 
Manette, your mother took this course wi
 street, pointing every way, and designe
  Chapter XII    Darkness      Chapter X
e doorway of the staircase gives on the 
d: for the two others had been set down 
 singular expression--but it was pretty 
"And what do you suppose, you conceited 
She had moved from the wall of the garre
earing her in the belief that her father
d of man was seen to go into it, all kin
 brown. His breakfast-table was drawn be
ocious murderer, and to-morrow of a wret
of wine. As he passed behind the counter
t bring smelling-salts, cold water, and 
 in the banking business we usually call
er of State, or the richest merchant in 
 eternal frost, when the light was playi
im from the vagrancy into which he alway
art. They had a sinister expression, und
k.
t you; I was praying for you."
hapter XVII   One Night      Chapter XVI
 was made of hair, but which looked far 
e of waiters in all ages.
ncord. Stir about there, now, for Concor
light was playing on its surface, and I 
ght them down and handed them in;--and i
taring at her.
r and the porkman painted up, only the l
 the night did not indicate; but they we
 fixedly at the questioner.
e transformation had come over him in a 
th the triumvirate of customers who were
u," here he addressed his wife once more
I do not doubt that you will find him, w
you shall know my name, and who my mothe
sed in, the daughter laid her head down 
-left its own heap of refuse on its own 
ey flashed at more convenient places of 
"Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Lorry.
other door on that floor, and the keeper
rehead, gradually forced themselves thro
e darling of my soul, is dead; it is the
tty desire to convey to him that she fel
Chapter I      The Period      Chapter I
ns; others devoted themselves to the sod
 disagreeable smell, and its obscurity, 
n?"
e the play in Bedlam--only the former en
nk Heaven--!
voice, as if she were saying it in a dre
 than useless now to make any inquiries,
"I wish accommodation prepared for a you
iss Manette to France?"
you."
et out of his hat-brim, which might be c
 he were lucky) in five minutes.
's knife. It lay on that side of him whi
rincipally occupied with the cares of ot
 You confuse me, and how can I transact 
r, which had been at intervals clear eno
inutes.
The answer was always the same: "Almost 
Some minutes of silent work had passed: 
oon settled the question of his detachme
, to sip, before the wine had all run ou
of the narrow street in the suburb of Sa
large jaw and a queen with a plain face,
w and a queen with a fair face, on the t
tes in the whole gamut of Crime, were pu
uld kindly mention now, for instance, wh
 fell upon her knees before him, with he
"Gentlemen," said her husband, who had k
d, at Tellson's, with such of their valu
tion, but not at all gently done; a very
fore my time here, sir. Before our peopl
nothing else connected with it to be loo
m in silence until he came to the blotti
nd say a hundred and fifty, yet not be f
nd fishes, that things in general were s
"You are not a shoemaker by trade?" said
He formed this speech with his lips many
the banking-house air. Your lighter boxe
ny four-footed inmate of a menagerie. To
 up his ears and looked back, without co
 the sea ran high. The likeness passed a
II. A Sight
g lady of not more than seventeen, in a 
gman, ever busy and ever worse than usel
tion.
"And you in brown!" she said, indignantl
it seemed transparent. So he sat, with a
o hold, he laid the knuckles of the righ
 was drawing to an end, it came at last 
re the coffee-room fire, awaiting his di
"A likely thing, too!" replied the stron
 head was lifted for another moment, and
"What is this?"
 it is but passing the room-door, and th
 them, while the Woodman and the Farmer 
he inn servants under the mysterious pen
e passenger, looking at the sun. "Gracio
d and became deeply attentive. It had no
 bow, informed his son, in passing, of h
en Madame Defarge put her toothpick by, 
 a brooding look upon them that looked i
beneath the banking-house window that wa
 though confinement and hard fare no dou
on his way to dig some one out of a grav
ow waistcoat and green breeches, looking
Perfectly still and silent, and not even
rdingly rolled his eyes about, until the
ing in your mind, Monsieur Manette?"
to one another, and to interchange the i
ing. If you must go flopping yourself do
had stood, for a minute or two, by the s
Defarge got upon the box, and gave the w
hat is before us, where I will be true t
autioned not to go out of town without r
th the case?" asked the man he had spoke
eing done in the garret; for, with his b
d of Tellson's House since, and I have b
packet and tried to secure it in his bre
t of hot ashes, at which she had been tr
ed at the figure before him, without fir
hery and villainy were practised, and wh
e us here. You see how composed he has b
a misspent life, until the House came wi
ere. Only one soul was to be seen, and t
he mouth of her only child."
ack mist that had fallen on him. They we
place, even in the year one thousand sev
g to pieces at the larger joints. As oft
 Tellson's House since. Feelings! I have
re buried, in deep graves of black mahog
it on the inside, took out the key again
m, and all quite in vain;--then the hist
he King, the first Minister of State, or
off my table. Keep still!"
essly watchful of him as of everything e
"But this is my father's story, sir; and
ng did die out of him, and he refolded h
 her eyebrows by the breadth of another 
Making his way through the tainted crowd
"Are you quite a stranger to me, sir?"
They both listened.
called to life?"
set it in motion again; the women who ha
 capacity, and time and tide had drifted
 am not much else. I will, with your lea
the neighbouring beach, or the specks of
Two other passengers, besides the one, w
 liberty with. Here! your mother's a nic
rch behind the mail, beating his feet, a
and sound, and still, just as he had las
ou_?"
into it, as if they had made it all.
as disturbed in mind.
s no passive belief, but an active weapo
t lay, on a Friday night late in Novembe
 but, they were naturally large, and loo
.
thing within range, nearer or lower than
 said his say, as he put down his empty 
farge had made all ready for the journey
t in November, one thousand seven hundre
ed the favour of a word.
housand like them, came to pass in and c
leave him. In any case, I will take care
r hand to Mr. Lorry as he stooped over t
d then recrossed the road and entered th
"Buried how long?"
ring over large books, and casting his b
"Come!" said Defarge. "Here is monsieur,
mused, and the moment she raised her eye
common tools and various scraps of leath
t a sound was made. She stood, like a sp
ing up of London and Westminster. Even t
rch morning, with young Jerry standing b
, such dread and terror, that Mr. Lorry 
ed fragments with eager relish. There wa
Completing his resemblance to a man who 
t down again.
hapter XV     The Footsteps Die Out For 
rved as the live sign of the house. He w
walk down the hill.
 and gave the word "To the Barrier!" The
e habit of such travelling yourself, I t
away; the mail was waylaid by seven robb
 as if to be sure that it was really the
se at hand, these three turned, and rose
I can't make so 'Nation sure of that," s
e passengers, the passengers suspected o
ood. He had taken it up, and was stoopin
life.' That's a Blazing strange message.
ry furrow of age and coming up afresh, w
 in London, sir?"
rn the leaves of this dear book that I l
ed in the one line, 'Recalled to Life;' 
, wearied out by lonely wandering in a w
fter looking doubtfully at it, two or th
their owner, in years gone by, some pain
"Don't do it!" said Mr. Crunches looking
me refreshment on the road, and required
 employment, Mr. Lorry flattened his fla
 frame; he laid the knife down softly, a
!"
se messenger, glancing at his mare. "'Re
 of some disclosure, to stay the spirit 
day, like greater places of business, it
"
 will take care of him until you return,
 woman, having banished the inn servants
e passerby was in the street. An unnatur
d by seven robbers, and the guard shot t
No; you have been the ward of Tellson's 
ir, that as it was considered necessary,
rug of the shoulders. "The people from t
eque shake as if the wind rustled it, wh
"Tst! Joe!" cried the coachman in a warn
, otherwise than as it has a tendency to
tomers who were drinking at the counter.
d in every fragment of the small modicum
 would take him, and, at my peril be dis
t an easy trot, stopping pretty often at
e fair faces, trod with stir enough, and
han before.
 who were small enough for his amiable p
m that looked ill. In the hunted air of 
y colour in his cheeks, and his face, th
s knee, and it contained a very little q
     A Plea      Chapter XXI    Echoing 
 urchin of twelve, who was his express i
yet received through any of the chickens
a run, the hoops had burst, and it lay o
 in the red coals no harm, otherwise tha
elonged, through some chinks or holes in
shall fire!"
y wager, sir, that a House like Tellson 
lips, white with what they suppressed; n
ritten to you by your old love, or by yo
eeze himself into court.
ooked at her.
 her, "good day. The chamber, furnished 
rtment. It was a large, dark room, furni
lose; there's nothing wrong."
isoner's counsel, who had a great bundle
)
iving him into his corner, whenever the 
The keeper of the wine-shop stopped to s
nt mode. I never saw the mode. I have ha
re him, with her appealing hands upon hi
ld in so very low a whisper, that not a 
late in November, before the first of th
my tile-paved entry to the gloomy tile-p
s made to stand and deliver on Turnham G
e chair by which she had hitherto remain
und the shop among the customers, for an
er lord came in, but coughed just one gr
"Miss Manette, it _was_ I. And you will 
t came at last to their hastily dividing
intently looking into the room to which 
 arm-chest before him, where a loaded bl
r father would have been the history of 
n't think he'd been a drinking!"
even in the year one thousand seven hund
ry corner, passed in and out at every do
im cupboards and hutches at Tellson's, t
e, "that many of these miserable beasts 
"_I_ think it is well."
to Life
d probably have excluded what little lig
"I entreat you to tell me more, sir."
odman and that Farmer, though they work 
ushed straight from the dock at my Lord 
 His linen, though not of a fineness in 
ften the pain in her own starved fingers
pped up from head to foot, the room had 
 foreign in its accent, but a very littl
 if you please. Show Concord! Gentleman'
     Chapter XXII   The Sea Still Rises 
children--resounded in the street while 
 signs (and they were almost as many as 
d shook. The mill which had worked them 
gainst my heart. O, see! Thank God for u
The messenger rode back at an easy trot,
 hand again, and looked closely at it. "
er, crossing the road, and obliterating 
, and great composure of manner. There w
on't be frightened! How you start!"
?"
r, which they tore in a frenzy. It died 
es, to take off his hat to scratch his h
damp and dirty straw, its disagreeable s
 happen, he had only to shut himself up 
 get taken up, but so much mud got taken
--when it ran at all: which was only aft
cutler's knives and axes were sharp and 
At this second interchange of the Christ
The coffee-room had no other occupant, t
rs is al-ways rusty!" muttered young Jer
aid Defarge.
 was an old-fashioned place, moreover, i
flop, mother. --Halloa, father!" and, af
shut with a spring, for ever and for eve
and degree, and the master of the wine-s
son's hands. In a similar way I am, or I
, and for me! Good gentlemen, thank God!
 light of Freedom shining on him.
 earth hanging about his face and hair, 
his manner, and forgetting to speak.
t was, that it was like a voice undergro
 wife, though a lady of great courage an
tle pools; these were surrounded, each b
anionship in it, an observable inclinati
ore, the Dover mail struggled on, with t
 its being received, for good or for evi
ous mother, you have, my boy: going and 
 fretted all the fat out of their parchm
 sees one. Show him that shoe you are wo
til they were dug out.
e to the blotting-paper stage, remarked:
now," said Mr. Lorry.
lp came from that quarter, they turned b
A shiver ran through her frame, and from
ith Tellson's. Death is Nature's remedy 
, to frolicsome embraces, drinking of he
 same: "Almost eighteen years."
uded again, they were fainter, they were
 was the response of Monsieur Defarge.
s of his mind, in the scared blank wonde
shoe you are working at. Take it, monsie
, and then he was represented by his son
t was the season of Darkness, it was the
F TWO CITIES ***
cumbent on him to speak a word or two of
g?"
n hers too. He turned her full to the li
France, less favoured on the whole as to
amps.
"That's a coincidence, too," the guard m
and that I must prepare myself to find t
k at her, with her pretty pale face and 
ong yielded to the calm that must follow
s own.
e, or even with handkerchiefs from women
a livelihood. Some of us have damp ways,
ast, to the face from which they had wan
Mr. Lorry took it in his hand.
man whom he stopped in his character of 
aid Jerry, not unlike a reluctant witnes
It was the Dover road that lay, on a Fri
renzy. It died out, as everything but hi
, that had not been seen in him before; 
, most especially the last. Samples of a
itting, and saw nothing.
ce than he made an outward show of, "You
what are you up to, Aggerawayter?"
niformity of parchment-yellow, that it w
to this. No more can I turn the leaves o
"Nothing at all, Joe."
ng it. Under the guidance of her Christi
yself, and I got it with much difficulty
put up with it, Aggerawayter, and what d
rustled in her seat.
riars: the time, half-past seven of the 
iginating any other kind of action.
king of hands, and even joining of hands
e open.
wall with his hand, and mutter a tremend
he counter as he came in. Madame Defarge
A STORY OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION
 of shot and ball; thieves snipped off d
erself down, and praying that the bread-
tay the spirit of a fast-dying man.
 he could.
pparent to them. They heard him mutter, 
Her golden hair, which she wore in long 
Tst! Yah! Get on with you!"
vable inclination on the part of every o
the keeper of the wine-shop stood lookin
released from the horror of being ogled 
nd went out. The gentleman then beckoned
-a Doctor."
 if he rather expected to see the loaf d
t, and it lay on the stones just outside
 see the loaf disappear under the effica
e Bank that the gentleman would explain 
After hailing the morn with this second 
ch. "Who wants me? Is it Jerry?"
the utterer of a bad note was put to Dea
, he often got up next morning to find t
 replied, "Yes--I am working." This time
viduality, and which I shall carry in mi
e in the beginning. It was famous, too, 
y should you be? If you will lock the do
ould admonish him to pull up the window,
 out theirs. Mere messages in the earthl
ntials, entries, and memoranda, are all 
 of day! To be buried alive for eighteen
, and lighted, and hoisted them again, a
tarted, and resumed, in the manner of a 
"--respecting the small property of my p
The keeper of the wine-shop, always goin
look towards the hospital procession of 
e put into a species of Condemned Hold a
ch they had wandered; when they rested o
of his detachment from the poor young la
rone of England; there were a king with 
The figures of a horse and rider came sl
article of war which forbade a purpose o
ve never seen you since. No; you have be
age to carry off the wine, and not only 
, returned to it; men with bare arms, ma
ork.
a white-haired man sat on a low bench, s
ad below him. They all looked from the c
 his pockets, whose whole attention, whe
e even yet discovered it, as a point in 
e, was to be atheistical and traitorous.
Once more, the two spectators started, a
 you mean by flopping yourself down and 
 him after they found me and demanded to
rward and very busy, making shoes.
eyes of Monsieur Defarge were studying h
 his mare. "'Recalled to life.' That's a
fruit to black divinities of the feminin
 me, or than I am to them?
laments of silk or glass. His linen, tho
assengers did; not because they had the 
d, especially among the luckier or light
with hands which at first had been only 
rave voices; and upon them, and upon the
th the charge. I shall be more happy to 
lf hanged, and then he'll be taken down 
g hands upon his breast.
. And a beautiful world we live in, when
 hunted air of the people there was yet 
ves. The people rudely pictured as drink
. He raised them, and saw her face. The 
, but broke off abruptly at the doors. T
of himself as "a honest tradesman." His 
t the door-post, knitting, and saw nothi
was done, he muffled again.
"Why?"
ter to Miss Manette's apartment. It was 
ich had taken anything but a convivial t
son's wanted no embellishment. Noakes an
"Indeed, sir? That was before my time he
f business--don't be distressed. Miss, i
"Hark!" he exclaimed. "Whose voice was t
y intent upon him--"that when I was left
made out of a broken-backed chair cut do
t in among them with the great keys and 
 popular game, by a lady who had bestowe
ou start!"
, wine; and finish there." With that adv
"I am afraid of it," she answered, shudd
Mr. Cruncher's attention was here divert
erked off his foot into his hand, and he
ed, would all be there. Out of the midst
at the doors. The kennel, to make amends
re us from interruption, I do not doubt 
 ever.
have damp ways, and some of us have dry 
urtyard. She quickly brought them down a
ar to the bench on which he sat. There w
"Buried how long?"
"It is a lady's shoe. It is a young lady
"that the worth of _your_ prayers may be
"Good day!" said Monsieur Defarge, looki
While he trotted back with the message h
peless, but I have unquestionably seen, 
gged manner. "I _do_ know the Bailey."
y long, a hollow face, and exceedingly b
. All that I may tell you, here and now,
 that, if it were less objectionable, it
 minute, when he nodded and went out. Th
able peculiarity was, that it was the fa
. Depressed and slinking though they wer
 on his own particular perch behind the 
t, the Old Bailey was famous as a kind o
 it in his hand. All this he did, method
es combined made it almost insupportable
patched into them with straw and rag and
iling search for your father, she left y
 the street, if anybody acquainted with 
windows, and the coach-lamp dimly gleami
eadful place, though no art could trace 
A shrill sound of laughter and of amused
f his scanty stock of bad bread; at the 
llow, that it would have been hard to sa
pile him, sir."
in Tellson and Company's House."
 himself; "I don't know you."
was a flutter among the military lantern
ots of its passengers squashing along by
loved head that lay on your breast when 
Between the eyebrows and just over the l
The guard soon replaced his blunderbuss 
rent of impression that never ceased to 
flourish of ceremony, for a mail journey
er XXIII  Fire Rises      Chapter XXIV  
e of the mail. All three were wrapped to
"
"Blest if I know," said Jerry.
 and long habit alone could have slowly 
ound; he never spoke, without first wand
use on its own landing, besides flinging
x.
ed person, the shadows of the night did 
aces.
"I said, couldn't you describe the kind 
paration that was offered for sale. Hung
more than once happened, that the Judge 
s, a secret to the heart nearest it! Som
ore his pardon for having never for his 
ome, so remote from this little earth th
hed just one grain of cough. This, in co
 was secured to your mother and to you. 
essel and smacked his lips.
 settles on my chest and voice," said Je
others in its appearance and degree, and
 hat to the oldest of men as they passed
otion of her hand. She had no fear of hi
cession of negro cupids, several headles
, now that I remember, one of you has al
d had any but a unnat'ral mother, I migh
as in-looking.
cial doors by which the criminals got th
es and lines; Hunger was patched into th
almost always with him, and though the c
amp way of earning a living mine is."
 or form, and much too near together--as
tion, which became greater every instant
n his work. He never looked at the figur
ened senses. Every little habitation wit
e, but done--done, see you!--under that 
uard," said Mr. Lorry, getting down into
 wigged gentleman, the prisoner's counse
 like the present period, that some of i
"I kiss your hand, miss," said Mr. Lorry
andering in a wilderness, would have rem
lemen! In the king's name, all of you!"
id Mr. Lorry, laying stress upon it as a
clinging to him.
yebrows up, and slightly rustled in her 
d lay, as to him, beyond the Dover mail,
This eBook is for the use of anyone anyw
till again, he turned to walk down the h
guest while he ate and drank, as from an
his right by turns to rub his chin, pull
holding about half a gallon. After stand
ses of his quick and laboured breathing,
ee had had the hardihood to propose to a
her."
ng awful in his unconsciousness of the f
k horsehair, and loaded with heavy dark 
ck of his raised blunderbuss, his left a
 Such a scanty portion of light was admi
 windows, darted here and there, to cut 
 their scanty measures of thin wine and 
rbance of mind, and to his young compani
n.
ptive, and assisted him to his feet.
the cares of other people; and perhaps s
When Mr. Lorry had finished his breakfas
It could scarcely be called a trade, in 
 away or re-use it under the terms of th
ighter had let these down, and lighted, 
poch of incredulity, it was the season o
e-dyed pieces of the cask, licking, and 
ife, and this poor boy had had any but a
and "my bird!" and spreading her golden 
e definite purpose than to escape the ha
o the coach by an arm in uniform, the ey
one of the three could have said, from a
eg the favour of his waiting for me here
ty in such obscurity. Yet, work of that 
 to Death; the sounders of three-fourths
the hands that held his arm. "There, the
eathern strap, which did what lay in it 
 them, loaded with rounds of shot and ba
together, the Old Bailey, at that date, 
sman      Chapter XV     Knitting      C
gly disconcerted by a question so hard t
is favourite description of himself as "
ey doors were well guarded--except, inde
om being the better for it in pocket, an
into a poor weak stain. So sunken and su
im. He recoiled, but she laid her hand u
rappers, bread and meat, wine, and hot c
rticular animosity.
will be over in a moment; it is but pass
n. "So, then! One more pull and you're a
 boots, and were now making a general pr
r significant manner.
It was dense enough to shut out everythi
ingering years."
VI. The Shoemaker
Mr. Cruncher's apartments were not in a 
 spilled. It had stained many hands, too
what little light the ground floor had, 
steep dark shaft of dirt and poison, the
ain your gentlemen in their travelling b
 that his head might lie upon her arm; a
The obscurity was so difficult to penetr
assed him. On their reaching the courtya
the roof and round at the walls.
 buckles, too, though plain, were trim. 
reat courage and spirit, had suffered so
y carpet, supposed Miss Manette to be, f
net like a Grenadier wooden measure, and
rth Tower."
, but it's wery hard to spile him, sir."
bject than to make a noise there. With t
For, the time was to come, when the gaun
 opposite the buried man who had been du
 and road, and shaming few good citizens
"_I_ say a horse at a gallop, Tom," retu
usand seven hundred and seventy-five. En
d him of his work, and he bent over it a
wn crisply-curling short dark hair. He w
f this very year last past (supernatural
 my name--to whom the sight is likely to
een his eyes and the light, and the very
ly a round dozen of years, after rapping
r was sent after him to beg the favour o
or the truth!"
"If so be as you're quick, sir."
upon her arm; and her hair drooping over
d gaiters into the general weight of the
and traitorous.
emple Bar, who was to deliver it to grea
-assisted from behind more swiftly than 
ould endure a lamplighter.
but because the hill, and the harness, a
, licking, and even champing the moister
which were squeezed dry into infants' mo
ion, he cocked his blunderbuss, and stoo
 way to his breakfast.
And now that the cloud settled on Saint 
and, with another deep sigh, fell to wor
ears."
"It is very high; it is a little difficu
ally suppressed and quieted, was still l
t insupportable. Through such an atmosph
that her father was dead--No, don't knee
 had happened, whether he recollected wh
ow, stringing up long rows of miscellane
oung and free, weep for it, weep for it!
ter IV     Calm in Storm      Chapter V 
    Chapter X      The Substance of the 
ought them to a stand, with a wary "Wo-h
ld have read the mysteries of his mind, 
were studying his wife at her knitting w
"Yes, sir. Not much in the habit of such
nt about with muffled tread: the rather,
"
hand upon his shoulder. After looking do
irected his own company just before. It 
ted no elbow-room, Tellson's wanted no l
 also, for the whipping-post, another de
in, were trim. He wore an odd little sle
gging, digging, digging, in the live red
ueen, the court, the clergy, for any tid
shoe upon his lap, pausing in his labour
ch for contraband goods, and the mob fir
 went up to his white hair, which they t
 of the feminine gender--and he made his
ad it all. No more can I look into the d
by trade?" said Mr. Lorry, looking stead
er her toothpick by the breadth of a lin
e live in, when it _is_ possible, and wh
s not the face she knew, this is not a v
d growing down hill almost to his broad,
"Not at all," retained the ancient clerk
imes the honour to entertain your gentle
stayed there, staring, recovered her cha
e swiftly than politely by the other two
iefs from women's heads, which were sque
d, and the other was opened but a very l
iting openly referring to it. This is a 
?"
He stared at her with a fearful look, an
f rebuilding Tellson's. In this respect 
ded down to such a dull uniformity of pa
"I asked leave to teach myself, and I go
ondemned Hold at the back, where you med
n, but I think a messenger was sent afte
The answers to this question were variou
came absorbed in it.
estminster Hall; to-day, taking the life
 to make amends, ran down the middle of 
 until the silence was again broken.
As to the latter, when every posting-hou
ast and shaken form had long yielded to 
e a privilege that I in my own time have
o keep the unfortunate gentleman so reti
 the guard, and from the guard to the co
ands. Do you call _that_ being a Banker?
advice."
After this odd description of his daily 
n Opinion      Chapter XX     A Plea    
d about her head again. Those who had be
ed; beyond, a quiet coppice-wood, in whi
y the reverse--but, it cleared off (as t
from Temple Bar, old lady, I won't trust
only was he permitted to be seen, specta
LED TO LIFE."
then, Monsieur the Officer," said Defarg
e mail to the summit of the hill. The ho
Christian name was effected, Madame Defa
m from pounding against the next passeng
scribed the note, Mr. Cruncher, after su
 business whatever, sometimes unaccounta
Release Date: January, 1994 [EBook #98] 
"Who are the few? How do you choose them
driver rested them and brought them to a
ne highwayman, who despoiled the illustr
the history of this unfortunate gentlema
mysteries to one another, as complete as
he heavy lands adjacent to Paris, there 
ieur Manette, your father, the gentleman
ere a loaded blunderbuss lay at the top 
 a great pile of houses, inhabited by a 
The time was to come, when that wine too
tion so engendered, would have polluted 
usiness is to be done, I had better do i
glazed, and closing up the middle in two
 he would have put himself in a fair way
uary 23, 2011]
 of husky chips of potato, fried with so
Hailing his softened tone and manner, hi
mp dimly gleaming through them, and the 
There was a longer pause than usual, bef
ve for eighteen years!"
t and mystery to every other. A solemn c
s, and not least of all with Tellson's. 
d and eighty. (Mr. Cruncher himself alwa
od!"
undred and seventy-five conduct their Gr
 in a day or two. Your deeds got into ex
 up to look for him, and who quietly nod
 I presume, I cannot do better than addr
ut the door he sought, and handed in his
reet, and rumbled into the inn-yard.
House."
band, who had kept his bright eye observ
 Cruncher worried his breakfast rather t
lose together at the side of a door, and
ll night; but I want a bedroom, and a ba
bones and over the ears, and wore jack-b
and the night was quite still again, he 
"As I was saying; if Monsieur Manette ha
cing a youth to have his hands cut off, 
y the former entertainment was much the 
e two other passengers were close behind
 in league with robbers. As to the latte
      Chapter XIII   Fifty-two      Chap
s, it was the age of wisdom, it was the 
r a patchwork counterpane, like a Harleq
eces--die--come to I know not what harm-
ecept, that "Whatever is is right;" an a
"You know that your parents had no great
clammy and intensely cold mist, it made 
t my lot in an island?"
"Take that message back, and they will k
ng her toothpick with profound composure
ith their intangible impurities; the two
e was pitiable and dreadful. It was not 
 pitted its gravity and longevity agains
ou."
 monsieur?" asked Defarge in a whisper.
ut of the midst of them, the ghostly fac
ade a purpose otherwise strongly in favo
A wild-looking woman, whom even in his a
 over her shoulders with great pride and
. Mr. Lorry, the passenger, shaking hims
d, and bumped upon its tedious way, with
n he had spoken, was like recalling some
 bow again, and took his seat.
 alarm, or merely of a bright fixed atte
"So far, miss (as you have remarked), th
_ prayers at!"
ness was the chink of money, and more dr
ced round.
h bare arms, matted locks, and cadaverou
e, for nothing would turn the man.
imbly to his place. "Gentlemen! In the k
re in peril of tempest.
n English lady--and I was one of the tru
ry or watchtower. According to the immem
lamplight, through the courtyard. She qu
left alone, Mr. Lorry asked him in a whi
t a moment's intermission. The task of r
ggard eyes had looked up again: not with
"What did you say?"
Jerry?"
d hunger, so long, as to conceive the id
ey, and more drafts were honoured in fiv
 not at all improved when he came to his
ssed, and in the ghastliness of their wo
ouldn't do for you, Jerry. Jerry, you ho
self into an expression that was not qui
red blank wonder of his face. Whether he
sion looking as if it were carved or bra
      Chapter II     The Mail      Chapt
do."
 o'clock he smoothed his ruffled aspect,
e strong-rooms underground, at Tellson's
ike each other, looking silently on at t
e!" said he.
d off their hats to Madame Defarge, with
"Do you mean to finish that pair of shoe
r with the white head. "It is well. Forw
The head of one of the regular indoor me
rses to be seen to, but travelling paper
 question by the young lady, turned hims
Fleet-street, and which were made the di
ornness up the hill, like an evil spirit
opiate) was always with him, there was a
ard to say:
t come near us, do not speak, do not mov
e consolidation and perpetuation of the 
 VI     The Shoemaker
d obliterating the jest with a handful o
ing Forgeries this morning?"
r father, the gentleman was of Beauvais.
th his eyes, as he stepped backward from
offal, among its refuse, of anything to 
pressive it was, of a hopeless and lost 
: you, to restore him to life, love, dut
.
s. He had no good-humour in his face, no
"I forgot them in the surprise of your v
r instance, the privilege of filling up 
y well."
nhabitants are, in their innermost perso
t back to Blackheath. Reins and whip and
u!--under that sky there, every day. Lon
and six, or his own coach and sixty, wit
cal character, he looked, under those ci
 with an air of stolid desperation, sett
Very orderly and methodical he looked, w
("I really think this must be a man!" wa
rawn on a hurdle to be half hanged, and 
to their duty.
ough it were spun from filaments of silk
ich looked far more as though it were sp
all tradesmen, who did no business whate
s hand, for his shoemaker's knife. It la
of the horse to the hat of the man.
d within his view, at a distance of some
adside retreating by jerks, the night sh
"The quartering one, eh?"
The Concord bed-chamber being always ass
house there. "Your papers, travellers!" 
 she stayed them with a motion of her ha
ker's name."
carried, on the shoemaker's bench (there
e Bar, the real business of the past day
 a great bundle of papers before him: an
 me in at this moment."
aw."
r every instant, Mr. Jarvis Lorry twice 
y gently raised her, and the hands that 
ter and messenger, who served as the liv
ge earrings. Her knitting was before her
nd do you make any gesture that will att
to tell her, without frightening her to 
the North Tower they found these upon my
 up, only the leanest scrags of meat; th
 guard called to the voice in the mist, 
said. I remember them very well."
leepy as laudanum, my lines is strained 
hat wouldn't do for you, Jerry! I say, J
 notice a word! Miss Manette!"
, just as they paid to see the play in B
bliterated marks of an actively intent i
"I think it necessary to turn the key." 
 her knitting when the elderly gentleman
is blunderbuss in his arm-chest, and, ha
ed her a little, and hurried her into th
 turned cylinder; Hunger was shred into 
d his nails were of the same pale lead-c
cups and saucers arranged for breakfast,
s character of "the Captain," gallantly 
 touch his three-cornered hat to the old
her.
d men, and highway robberies, took place
t, and not even fallen back in her chair
n had ancient faces and grave voices; an
 their homage by bending her head, and g
 own secret; that every room in every on
ess of the gallows-rope they mused about
, and ever dimmer in the worse--and by l
eeches, looking on at the struggle for t
Mr. Cruncher reposed under a patchwork c
 usual genial position that the guard su
raculous presence.
In the submissive way of one long accust
r Manette?"
 lips. It was a gentle action, but not a
"--rendered it necessary that I should g
trade? No, I was not a shoemaker by trad
at once was sweet music in your ears, we
ontracted dimensions, to be ascended, be
as appointed that the water should be lo
ruffled aspect, and, presenting as respe
ing, though I had none--and when I was b
t always had a great dining-table in it 
l?"
the surface, with his spiky hair looking
ife in it, terrible in history. It is li
Exceedingly red-eyed and grim, as if he 
n favour of your husband and child, and 
who quietly nodded and sat down again.
Mr. Cruncher's temper was not at all imp
 could with a clear conscience have take
is file last updated: January 23, 2011]
ed her husband. "Gentlemen--my wife!"
oach-step, getting in; the two other pas
h the message he was to deliver to the n
 A little fishing was done in the port, 
f in a fair way of getting shot instantl
opeless mass of decomposition so engende
gle syllable could have been spoken on e
t, his mind was busily digging, digging,
 and long ago. So entirely had it lost t
III. The Night Shadows
, the gentleman was of repute in Paris. 
 the Bailey."
He opened it in the light of the coach-l
 lady had suffered so intensely before h
ness necessitated your seeing "the House
le moment, the face that I once knew so 
sperity. You've got a dutiful mother, yo
osition to 'em. If I had had any but a u
coach-door as his custom was. He did it 
op stopped to strike the wall with his h
g lamps, out under the great grove of st
of everything else in Fleet-street.
ost as many as the shops) were, all, gri
 he was, when I first saw him after they
have transferred the question to him: bu
so, but I hope it is--if you hear in my 
hand. Mr. Lorry sat at a table, among th
The house had always tolerated some pers
een most abundant were raked into a grid
sing shadow.
other."
 would do well to look round the shop am
ed to her husband that he would do well 
e upon the darkness of their condition. 
efore our people's time here, sir. The G
tively intent intelligence in the middle
an he had spoken with.
 gallop came fast and furiously up the h
 doom as certainly as the prisoner's, an
ied her into the room. He sat her down j
radually dropped to the floor, and lay t
o let in a little more light here. You c
ard history. But I cannot tell you at th
g.
The three glided by, and went silently d
since I--came last from France."
voice, that it affected the senses like 
. Cruncher's domestic economy, that, whe
of business, its contemporaries, had tak
IV. The Preparation
ther and son, extremely like each other,
ss you bring to him, begin. Let our good
e myself, during the journey, under that
 lost its hold of them, and they again s
ly done; a very remarkable transformatio
"If you hear in my voice--I don't know t
"Hallo, Joe."
aid the other. "Call wine, wine; and fin
rable safety and ease (if he were lucky)
might have been already tinged with grey
 happy, without the dark cloud upon you 
ddy wine-lees--BLOOD.
 in all the hollows, and it had roamed i
es upon him. "It is the law."
 look at you."
orry, "to be entrusted with the charge. 
rt, and much playfulness. There was a sp
hort by the whip in a most decided negat
h of belief, it was the epoch of incredu
"Almost eighteen years."
ht is likely to do good. Enough; you are
use from its own windows. The uncontroll
ver his eyes. He had eyes that assorted 
the hollow of the left, and then the knu
rm. "There, there, there! See now, see n
or went into, wormy old wooden drawers, 
aid one of these three to Monsieur Defar
ne thousand seven hundred and eighty. It
"And then breakfast, sir? Yes, sir. That
When the quiet of the garret had been lo
he dark was a City tradesman in the ligh
m.
urse of my business life, just as I pass
 under those circumstances.
the speaker.
 dressed in a brown suit of clothes, pre
s our man."
twinkling eyes of the youthful Jerry wer
several headless and all cripples, were 
eat foul nest of one high building--that
 fellow-inscrutables inside. To whom, li
rindstone      Chapter III    The Shadow
ough the rusted bars, tastes, rather tha
d."
s, to remain there until he wants you."
men, thank God! I feel his sacred tears 
eak, do not move!"
gacity could have solved. They tried spe
"I can't say that I mean to. I suppose s
ay through the air in ripples that visib
lained Monsieur Defarge. "Leave us, good
ing her golden hair aside over her shoul
in him before; yet, he had some pleasure
latory      Chapter V      The Jackal   
 that Tellson's was the triumphant perfe
pretty often at ale-houses by the way to
--she had a fear of my going, though I h
y marked by the Woodman, Fate, to come d
a breath along the surface of the gaunt 
 a great stroke of business. The rattle 
rd one thousand seven hundred and sevent
ave in their mouths, and hard lives they
d a half of public street and road, and 
inged with grey.
oing on the side which Mr. Lorry took, a
it was not a little that he knew about t
ng dead--"
e there. With the same intention, he dre
at the Christian era dated from the inve
g pretty!"
im. The darkness deepened and deepened, 
 it with his own, took a nimble spring u
 thrice the time. Then the strong-rooms 
raggedly cut, but not very long, a hollo
e stopped, and stared at the roof and ro
 prayers may be? Name the price that you
he floor on one side of him; then simila
 of fifteen years ago?"
ure that was not of business shining on 
etic private in the Life Guards had hera
her occupant, that forenoon, than the ge
tors started, as he turned upon her with
heart, Jerry. They are worth no more tha
ng."
ked from every window, fluttered in ever
ter, in their idleness and hunger, so lo
 and had just poured out his last glassf
making his way to Mr. Lorry, with the no
reet, he dropped his daughter's hand and
"Yes, sir. We have oftentimes the honour
utiful colour faded away into a poor wea
oad; and the reek of the labouring horse
k, so good as to be despatched to Paris 
"Am I to wait in the court, sir?" he ask
ssinia or Ashantee.
 on the two Testaments that they were no
mist and darkness, dismounted meanwhile,
s.
 Tom?"
s of miscellaneous criminals; now, hangi
is fancy would dig, and dig, dig--now wi
y, he wore no coat, but carried one slun
t evincing a tendency to keep his own co
most dangerous man in the world to go ov
 Thus, Tellson's, in its day, like great
 it as though it were the light of Freed
might; but Tellson's, thank Heaven--!
joker of an extremely, not to say wolfis
led to her husband that she would get th
o see, and were inquiring for when I ste
that is another thing. Stay there, if yo
In England, there was scarcely an amount
e Bailey. Much better," said Jerry, not 
I once knew so well. Hush! Let us draw f
m even in his agitation, Mr. Lorry obser
d even Tellson's, important as they are 
y--"
awayter?"
as white as the tops of the waves that b
 paper. The rider's horse was blown, and
fter dinner does a digger in the red coa
be dressed in some extraordinary tight-f
nd at rest, I cause you to think of your
e were rather disinclined to this course
 and then got shot dead himself by the o
o scratch his head. Except on the crown,
one heard them as they went about with m
th it to be looked after. Thus, Tellson'
nd passengers by the mail being always h
 waiter came in to announce that Miss Ma
 his chin, pull his wig at the ears, or 
 rain, on the moving patch of light from
that pair of shoes to-day?" asked Defarg
the cliffs, and brought the coast down, 
been hard to say which was which.
 Later      Chapter II     A Sight      
ody to be withered and worn. He, and his
grasp, and only said, in a low voice, "I
m."
 depository for firewood and the like, w
towards the window where the keeper of t
ery leaf; as if _they_ were buried, in d
ey clattered away under the feeble over-
look into the depths of this unfathomabl
, and cadaverous faces, who had emerged 
 round the wine-shop, took up her knitti
neral preparation for business. In the m
right in your lifetime. Gentleman of the
h, Hunger. It was prevalent everywhere. 
mbination, had read that article of war 
rippling stones of the pavement, with th
 my boots keep a eye upon your mother no
golden hair; as if he pictured to himsel
streets, at wide intervals, one clumsy l
g it out of a cart; the cask had tumbled
windy March morning, the room in which h
inctively altered his tread, as being in
ght.
 every day. Long live the Devil. Let us 
the eyes of the mind, as from the eyes o
at they were not fit for the journey.
stood. The rider stooped, and, casting u
 town without removing their furniture t
nd though the coach (in a confused way, 
d time. There was yet an upper staircase
irt, sickness, ignorance, and want, were
, as if they were at sea. Indeed they we
selle.' It's not long, you see, guard. J
the ghostly face would rise, and he woul
ent, in some adjacent room, until, havin
The Dover mail was in its usual genial p
. They seemed to be numerous, for she sh
 of the night took such shapes to him as
o tamper with him no more. He had a wild
uniform, the eyes connected with the arm
we will remove him straight."
re. Our relations were business relation
d show of, "You are a lean old one, too,
n, he bent to work again, until the sile
ght here. You can bear a little more?"
r was the inscription on the baker's she
 than any communications yet received th
rnt it here. I taught myself. I asked le
 face, on the throne of France. In both 
lay at the top of six or eight loaded ho
, rolled with exceeding smoothness down 
 result of that conference.
hey can never help me to escape in the b
ut of a long squalid bag of a nightcap t
some ceremony to his lips. He then condu
, travellers!" "See here then, Monsieur 
ossible, and when many other such things
urned, and rose, and showed themselves t
f I am confused? Let us be clear-headed.
dious way, with its three fellow-inscrut
t voice answered something. Little more 
 gloomily reflected on every leaf; as if
"My blood!" ejaculated the vexed coachma
ow stood looking at him, with hands whic
the door, and pulled up the window. "He 
nt as they are to French credit, avoid a
 in waiting on the saintly presence--nob
' Those were the words I said. I remembe
They went up slowly and softly. The stai
Tellson's (they said) wanted no elbow-ro
hauling up men by those ropes and pulley
ted that the book should shut with a spr
r two, by the side of Defarge, the shoem
ve said, from anything he saw, what eith
tuation of the secret that was always in
at I have to kneel to my honoured father
ttled on Saint Antoine, which a momentar
at power all of them; but, most especial
he play at the Old Bailey, just as they 
other two was like; and each was hidden 
 Monsieur Defarge. "Is all the spilt win
As he held out his hand for the shoe tha
 never knew their hard, hard history. Bu
, and roosted in by poultry, which the F
heese, until he had the full Tellson fla
sieur Defarge put this provender, and th
on hard to answer, Mr. Jarvis Lorry with
 years."
ight fixed attention, though it included
 business-like an exterior as he could o
and the like, was dim and dark: for, the
w him where you stand. Then what you hav
but to wipe the mud from his face, and s
loor, and lay there in a lethargy, worn 
ank, as from an observatory or watchtowe
eople, from a congress of British subjec
lently shook his head and everything upo
He seemed wilfully to mistake the word s
ed, by way of proviso.
ession. They had not traversed many step
so heavy, that the horses had three time
"You think it necessary to keep the unfo
 and eighty. It was very small, very dar
ps, gay crowds, illuminated coffee-house
ng mine is."
ess shining on his cheek. "Come in, come
rpose."
 submerged. It was appointed that the bo
tor of Beauvais."
n in wigs: not far from a wigged gentlem
"Guard!" said the passenger, in a tone o
"What did you say?"
th a wary "Wo-ho! so-ho-then!" the near 
 prisoner's, and even died before him. F
ine as it was possible to be, the expres
trongly in favour of the argument, that 
orays through the Bar, to inflict bodily
"Well, well," said the old clerk; "we al
t is well. Forward!" from the uniform. "
 hope, it was the winter of despair, we 
nd the Temple, as the Bar itself,--and w
There was a steaming mist in all the hol
ly, the messenger found out the door he 
tleman of sixty, formally dressed in a b
ed large fortunes, and it was remarkable
ison to that house, was apparent to them
ry shadow on the road.
tered young Jerry. "Where does my father
"Yes; for a moment. At first I thought i
passed a hand across his bearded chin, a
Mr. Lorry's thoughts seemed to cloud too
All these things, and a thousand like th
His wife explained that she had merely "
went silently down.
we usually call our connection our custo
though it was a bitter day, he wore no c
nd-forty by years, and they differed pri
"Of his own necessity. As he was, when I
Yielding to his own disturbance of mind,
taken out and burnt while he looks on, a
scrutable than its busy inhabitants are,
in the live red coals.
At last, the top of the staircase was ga
times, before he put it clumsily into th
he left hand in the hollow of the right,
 what it liked was destruction. It thund
as a French gentleman; a scientific gent
, and love it back to life and hope--so 
people then paid to see the play at the 
ent of the Royal George, that although b
he easterly parish church of Hounsditch,
